 categorizers are used on-line in order to classify new documents after they have passed the linguistic preprocessing. The resulting category is in our application associated with a standard text that the call center agent uses in her answer. The on-line step provides new classified data that is stored in a dedicated ICC-MAIL database (not shown in Figure 1). The relearning step is based on data from this database. 3.1 Shallow Text Processing Linguistic preprocessing of text documents is carried out by re-using smes, an information extraction core system for real-world German text processing (Neumann et al., 1997). The fundamental design criterion of smes is to provide a set of basic, powerful, robust, and efficient STP components and 4Almost all tools we examined build a single multicategorizer except for SVM_Light, which builds multiple binary classifiers. 159 Figure 1: Architecture of the ICC-MAIL System. (categorized Data generic linguistic knowledge sources that can easily be customized to deal with different tasks in a flexible manner. smes includes a text tokenizer, a lexical processor and a chunk parser. The chunk parser itself is subdivided into three components. In the first step, phrasal fra
 In the categorization phase, the new document is preprocessed, and a result vector is built as described above and handed over to the categorizer (cf. Figure 1). While we tried various kinds of linguistic preprocessing, systematic experiments have been carried out with morphological analysis (MorphAna), shallow parsing heuristics (STP-Heuristics), and a combination of both (Combined). MorphAna: Morphological Analysis provided by smes yields the word stems of nouns, verbs and adjectives, as well as the full forms of unknown words. We are using a lexicon of approx. 100000 word stems of German (Neumann et al., 1997). STP-Heuristics: Shallow parsing techniques are used to heuristically identify sentences containing relevant information. The e-mails usually contain questions and/or descriptions of problems. The manual analysis of a sample of the data suggested some linguistic constructions frequently used to express the problem. We expected that content words in these constructions should be particularly influential to the categorization. Words in these constructions are extracted and processed as in MorphAna, and all other words are ignored.5 The heuristics were implemented in ICC-MAIL using smes. The con
