 into Romanian using native speakers. The training data set for Romanian coreference used, wherever possible, the same coreference identifiers as the English data and incorporated additional tags as needed. Our claim is that by adding the wealth of coreferential features provided by multilingual data, new powerful heuristics for coreference resolution can be developed that outperform monolingual coreference resolution systems. For both languages, we resolved coreference by using SWIZZLE, our implementation of a bilingual coreference resolver. SWIZZLE is a multilingual enhancement of COCKTAIL (Harabagiu and Maiorano, 1999), a coreference resolution system that operates on a mixture of heuristics that combine semantic and textual cohesive information'. When COCKTAIL was applied separately on the English and the Romanian texts, coreferring links were identified for each English and Romanian document respectively. When aligned referential expressions corefer with non-aligned anaphors, SWIZZLE derived new heuristics for coreference. Our experiments show that SWIZZLE outperformed COCKTAIL on both English and Romanian test documents. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents COCKTAIL, a monoli
TAIL combines a larger number of heuristics than those reported in (Baldwin, 1997). SWIZZLE, moreover, adds new heuristics, discovered from the bilingual aligned corpus. 142 conclusions. 2 COCKTAIL Currently, some of the best-performing and most robust coreference resolution systems employ knowledge-based techniques. Traditionally, these techniques have combined extensive syntactic, semantic, and discourse knowledge. The acquisition of such knowledge is time-consuming, difficult, and error-prone. Nevertheless, recent results show that knowledge-poor methods perform with amazing accuracy (cf. (Mitkov, 1998), (Kennedy and Boguraev, 1996) (Kameyama, 1997)). For example, CogNIAC (Baldwin, 1997), a system based on seven ordered heuristics, generates high-precision resolution (over 90%) for some cases of pronominal reference. For this research, we used a coreference resolution system ((Harabagiu and Maiorano, 1999)) that implements different sets of heuristics corresponding to various forms of coreference. This system, called COCKTAIL, resolves coreference by exploiting several textual cohesion constraints (e.g. term repetition) combined with lexical and textual coherence cues (e.g. subjects of commu
owledge-based techniques. Traditionally, these techniques have combined extensive syntactic, semantic, and discourse knowledge. The acquisition of such knowledge is time-consuming, difficult, and error-prone. Nevertheless, recent results show that knowledge-poor methods perform with amazing accuracy (cf. (Mitkov, 1998), (Kennedy and Boguraev, 1996) (Kameyama, 1997)). For example, CogNIAC (Baldwin, 1997), a system based on seven ordered heuristics, generates high-precision resolution (over 90%) for some cases of pronominal reference. For this research, we used a coreference resolution system ((Harabagiu and Maiorano, 1999)) that implements different sets of heuristics corresponding to various forms of coreference. This system, called COCKTAIL, resolves coreference by exploiting several textual cohesion constraints (e.g. term repetition) combined with lexical and textual coherence cues (e.g. subjects of communication verbs are more likely to refer to the last person mentioned in the text). These constraints are implemented as a set of heuristics ordered by their priority. Moreover, the COCKTAIL framework uniformly addresses the problem of interaction between different forms of coreference, thus making the extens
their nominalizations. On other occasions, coercions are obtained as paths of meronyms (e.g. is-part relations) and hypernyms (e.g. is-a relations). Con144 sistency checks implemented for this class of coreference are conservative: either the adjuncts must be identical or the adjunct of the referent must be less specific than the antecedent. Table 1 lists the top performing heuristics of COCKTAIL for pronominal and nominal coreference. Examples of the heuristics operation on the MUC data are presented presented in Table 2. Details of the top performing heuristics of COCKTAIL were reported in (Harabagiu and Maiorano, 1999). 2.3 Bootstrapping for Coreference Resolution One of the major drawbacks of existing coreference resolution systems is their inability to recognize many forms of coreference displayed by many real-world texts. Recall measures of current systems range between 36% and 59% for both knowledgebased and statistical techniques. Knowledge basedsystems would perform better if more coreference constraints were available whereas statistical methods would be improved if more annotated data were available. Since knowledge-based techniques outperform inductive methods, we used high-precision coreference he
