n, though either one of the two could actually appear. 2 Tracking mistakes We have presented briefly the type of errors detection TransCheck seeks to accomplish automatically. We will now see in more details how they are currently being implemented. 2.1 Prerequisites In order for TransCheck to detect potential translation errors, a relatively impressive set of mechanisms is required. These include: 1. An aligner. After identification of word and sentence boundaries the text is processed into a bi-text by an alignment program. This alignment is done on the basis of both length (Gale and Church [7]) and a notion of cognateness (Simard [16]). 2. Transducers. In order to compare numerical expressions, which often diverge in format between given pairs of languages, normalisation toward a common format is required. This is done with transducers (Kaplan and Kay, [10]). 3. Part-of-speech tagger. Misleading similarities in graphical form can sometime induce translation mistakes (deceptive cognates)) These forbidden pairs normally involve only one of several possible parts of speech, hence the need to disambiguate them. We do this with a first-order HMM part-ofspeech tagger (Merialdo [13]). I I
Church [7]) and a notion of cognateness (Simard [16]). 2. Transducers. In order to compare numerical expressions, which often diverge in format between given pairs of languages, normalisation toward a common format is required. This is done with transducers (Kaplan and Kay, [10]). 3. Part-of-speech tagger. Misleading similarities in graphical form can sometime induce translation mistakes (deceptive cognates)) These forbidden pairs normally involve only one of several possible parts of speech, hence the need to disambiguate them. We do this with a first-order HMM part-ofspeech tagger (Merialdo [13]). I In the rest of the paper, we will use deceptive cognate very losely often to refer to normative usage of word in general. 129 4. Translation models. Being robust, the alignment program will align a pair of texts regardless of possible omissions in the target text. To detect such omissions of text, a probabilistic bilingual dictionary is called upon. This dictionary was estimated along the line of Brown and al.'s first translation model [2]. It is used to align (coarsely) at the word level. In what follows, we assume the reader to be at least remotely familiar with most of these mechanisms
