 the method using a query log from Baidu1, a Chinese search engine. Experimental results show that the proposed method is effective, which extracts more than 3.5 million pairs of paraphrases with a precision of over 70%. The results also show that the extracted paraphrases can be used to generate high-quality paraphrase patterns. 1 Introduction The use of paraphrases is ubiquitous in human languages, which also presents a challenge for natural language processing (NLP). Previous studies have shown that paraphrasing can play important roles in plenty of areas, such as machine translation (MT) (Callison-Burch et al, 2006; Kauchak and Barzilay, 2006), question answering (QA) (Duboue and Chu-Carroll, 2006; Riezler et al, 2007), natural language generation (NLG) (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), and so on. As a result, the research on paraphrasing and its applications have attracted significant interest. 1www.baidu.com This paper proposes a method that uses search engine query logs for extracting paraphrases, which is illustrated in Figure 1. Specifically, three kinds of paraphrases can be extracted with our method, which include (1) query-title (Q-T): a query and a document title that users clicked on; (2) query-query
g from Baidu1, a Chinese search engine. Experimental results show that the proposed method is effective, which extracts more than 3.5 million pairs of paraphrases with a precision of over 70%. The results also show that the extracted paraphrases can be used to generate high-quality paraphrase patterns. 1 Introduction The use of paraphrases is ubiquitous in human languages, which also presents a challenge for natural language processing (NLP). Previous studies have shown that paraphrasing can play important roles in plenty of areas, such as machine translation (MT) (Callison-Burch et al, 2006; Kauchak and Barzilay, 2006), question answering (QA) (Duboue and Chu-Carroll, 2006; Riezler et al, 2007), natural language generation (NLG) (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), and so on. As a result, the research on paraphrasing and its applications have attracted significant interest. 1www.baidu.com This paper proposes a method that uses search engine query logs for extracting paraphrases, which is illustrated in Figure 1. Specifically, three kinds of paraphrases can be extracted with our method, which include (1) query-title (Q-T): a query and a document title that users clicked on; (2) query-query (Q-Q): two queries, for whic
esults show that the proposed method is effective, which extracts more than 3.5 million pairs of paraphrases with a precision of over 70%. The results also show that the extracted paraphrases can be used to generate high-quality paraphrase patterns. 1 Introduction The use of paraphrases is ubiquitous in human languages, which also presents a challenge for natural language processing (NLP). Previous studies have shown that paraphrasing can play important roles in plenty of areas, such as machine translation (MT) (Callison-Burch et al, 2006; Kauchak and Barzilay, 2006), question answering (QA) (Duboue and Chu-Carroll, 2006; Riezler et al, 2007), natural language generation (NLG) (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), and so on. As a result, the research on paraphrasing and its applications have attracted significant interest. 1www.baidu.com This paper proposes a method that uses search engine query logs for extracting paraphrases, which is illustrated in Figure 1. Specifically, three kinds of paraphrases can be extracted with our method, which include (1) query-title (Q-T): a query and a document title that users clicked on; (2) query-query (Q-Q): two queries, for which users clicked on the same document title; (3) titleti
17 paraphrase Q-T extraction query title both query and title paraphrase Q-Q extraction paraphrase T-T extraction paraphrase relation Figure 1: Illustration of the proposed method. sults. Section 5 concludes the paper and discusses future directions. 2 Related Work In this section, we briefly review previous studies on paraphrase extraction and query log mining in information retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due
 query title both query and title paraphrase Q-Q extraction paraphrase T-T extraction paraphrase relation Figure 1: Illustration of the proposed method. sults. Section 5 concludes the paper and discusses future directions. 2 Related Work In this section, we briefly review previous studies on paraphrase extraction and query log mining in information retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and doma
roposed method. sults. Section 5 concludes the paper and discusses future directions. 2 Related Work In this section, we briefly review previous studies on paraphrase extraction and query log mining in information retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?c
 Section 5 concludes the paper and discusses future directions. 2 Related Work In this section, we briefly review previous studies on paraphrase extraction and query log mining in information retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhag
 paper and discusses future directions. 2 Related Work In this section, we briefly review previous studies on paraphrase extraction and query log mining in information retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran,
ion and query log mining in information retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran, 2008) or directly based on web mining (Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). These methods are guided by an extended version of distributional hypoth
ation retrieval (IR). 2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran, 2008) or directly based on web mining (Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). These methods are guided by an extended version of distributional hypothesis, namely, if two p
2.1 Paraphrase Extraction A variety of data resources have been exploited for paraphrase extraction. For example, some researchers extract paraphrases from multiple translations of the same foreign novel (Barzilay and McKeown, 2001; Ibrahim et al, 2003), while some others make use of comparable news articles that report on the same event within a small time interval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran, 2008) or directly based on web mining (Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). These methods are guided by an extended version of distributional hypothesis, namely, if two phrases often occur 
erval (Shinyama et al, 2002; Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran, 2008) or directly based on web mining (Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). These methods are guided by an extended version of distributional hypothesis, namely, if two phrases often occur in similar contexts, their meanings tend to be similar. The disadvantage of these methods is that the underlying assumption does not always hold. Phrases with opposite meanings can also occur in similar contexts, such as ?X solves Y? and ?X worsens Y? (Lin and Pantel, 2001). In addition, the extracted paraphrases are generally short fragments with two slots (varia
2003; Dolan et al, 2004). Besides the monolingual corpora, bilingual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran, 2008) or directly based on web mining (Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). These methods are guided by an extended version of distributional hypothesis, namely, if two phrases often occur in similar contexts, their meanings tend to be similar. The disadvantage of these methods is that the underlying assumption does not always hold. Phrases with opposite meanings can also occur in similar contexts, such as ?X solves Y? and ?X worsens Y? (Lin and Pantel, 2001). In addition, the extracted paraphrases are generally short fragments with two slots (variables) at both ends. 2.2 Query Log Mining in IR Query logs
gual parallel corpora have also been used for extracting paraphrases (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Callison-Burch, 2008; Zhao et al, 2008). Their basic assumption is that phrases that align with the same foreign phrase may have the same meaning. The above methods have achieved promising results. However, their performances are usually constrained due to the scale and domain limitation. As an alternative, researchers have tried to acquire paraphrases from large-scale web corpora (Lin and Pantel, 2001; Pas?ca and Dienes, 2005; Bhagat and Ravichandran, 2008) or directly based on web mining (Ravichandran and Hovy, 2002). These methods are guided by an extended version of distributional hypothesis, namely, if two phrases often occur in similar contexts, their meanings tend to be similar. The disadvantage of these methods is that the underlying assumption does not always hold. Phrases with opposite meanings can also occur in similar contexts, such as ?X solves Y? and ?X worsens Y? (Lin and Pantel, 2001). In addition, the extracted paraphrases are generally short fragments with two slots (variables) at both ends. 2.2 Query Log Mining in IR Query logs are widely used in the IR community, especially for mining si
y an extended version of distributional hypothesis, namely, if two phrases often occur in similar contexts, their meanings tend to be similar. The disadvantage of these methods is that the underlying assumption does not always hold. Phrases with opposite meanings can also occur in similar contexts, such as ?X solves Y? and ?X worsens Y? (Lin and Pantel, 2001). In addition, the extracted paraphrases are generally short fragments with two slots (variables) at both ends. 2.2 Query Log Mining in IR Query logs are widely used in the IR community, especially for mining similar queries. For example, Wen et al (2002) clustered queries based on user click information. Their basic idea is that if some queries result in similar user clicks, the meanings of these queries should be similar. Such methods have also been investigated in (Gao et al, 2007) for cross-lingual query suggestion and (Zhao et al, 2007) for synonymous questions identification. This paper is partly inspired by their studies. However, we do not simply use click information as clues for mining similar queries. Instead, we mine paraphrases across queries and clicked document titles. In addition, query logs can be used for query expansion. For
hrases with opposite meanings can also occur in similar contexts, such as ?X solves Y? and ?X worsens Y? (Lin and Pantel, 2001). In addition, the extracted paraphrases are generally short fragments with two slots (variables) at both ends. 2.2 Query Log Mining in IR Query logs are widely used in the IR community, especially for mining similar queries. For example, Wen et al (2002) clustered queries based on user click information. Their basic idea is that if some queries result in similar user clicks, the meanings of these queries should be similar. Such methods have also been investigated in (Gao et al, 2007) for cross-lingual query suggestion and (Zhao et al, 2007) for synonymous questions identification. This paper is partly inspired by their studies. However, we do not simply use click information as clues for mining similar queries. Instead, we mine paraphrases across queries and clicked document titles. In addition, query logs can be used for query expansion. For instance, Cui et al (2002) extract probabilistic correlations between query terms and document terms by analyzing query logs, which are then used to select high-quality 1318 H1: If a query q hits a title t, then q and t are likely to
ontexts, such as ?X solves Y? and ?X worsens Y? (Lin and Pantel, 2001). In addition, the extracted paraphrases are generally short fragments with two slots (variables) at both ends. 2.2 Query Log Mining in IR Query logs are widely used in the IR community, especially for mining similar queries. For example, Wen et al (2002) clustered queries based on user click information. Their basic idea is that if some queries result in similar user clicks, the meanings of these queries should be similar. Such methods have also been investigated in (Gao et al, 2007) for cross-lingual query suggestion and (Zhao et al, 2007) for synonymous questions identification. This paper is partly inspired by their studies. However, we do not simply use click information as clues for mining similar queries. Instead, we mine paraphrases across queries and clicked document titles. In addition, query logs can be used for query expansion. For instance, Cui et al (2002) extract probabilistic correlations between query terms and document terms by analyzing query logs, which are then used to select high-quality 1318 H1: If a query q hits a title t, then q and t are likely to be paraphrases. H2: If queries q1 and q2 hit the same tit
queries based on user click information. Their basic idea is that if some queries result in similar user clicks, the meanings of these queries should be similar. Such methods have also been investigated in (Gao et al, 2007) for cross-lingual query suggestion and (Zhao et al, 2007) for synonymous questions identification. This paper is partly inspired by their studies. However, we do not simply use click information as clues for mining similar queries. Instead, we mine paraphrases across queries and clicked document titles. In addition, query logs can be used for query expansion. For instance, Cui et al (2002) extract probabilistic correlations between query terms and document terms by analyzing query logs, which are then used to select high-quality 1318 H1: If a query q hits a title t, then q and t are likely to be paraphrases. H2: If queries q1 and q2 hit the same title t, q1 and q2 are likely to be paraphrases. H3: If a query q hits titles t1 and t2, then t1 and t2 are likely to be paraphrases. Table 1: Hypotheses for extracting paraphrases. expansion terms for new queries. Note that the expansion terms are merely related terms of the queries, not necessarily paraphrases. There are other studies
terms and document terms by analyzing query logs, which are then used to select high-quality 1318 H1: If a query q hits a title t, then q and t are likely to be paraphrases. H2: If queries q1 and q2 hit the same title t, q1 and q2 are likely to be paraphrases. H3: If a query q hits titles t1 and t2, then t1 and t2 are likely to be paraphrases. Table 1: Hypotheses for extracting paraphrases. expansion terms for new queries. Note that the expansion terms are merely related terms of the queries, not necessarily paraphrases. There are other studies that use query logs for constructing ontologies (Sekine and Suzuki, 2007), learning named entities (Pas?ca, 2007), building user profiles (Richardson, 2008), correcting spelling errors (Ahmad and Kondrak, 2005), and so forth. 3 The Proposed Method 3.1 Basic Idea Nowadays, more and more users tend to search long queries with search engines. Many users even directly search questions to get exact answers. By analyzing our query log that records rich information including user queries, clicked urls, titles, etc., we find that most titles of clicked documents are highly related with search queries. Especially, paraphrases can be easily found from long queries and the co
ty 1318 H1: If a query q hits a title t, then q and t are likely to be paraphrases. H2: If queries q1 and q2 hit the same title t, q1 and q2 are likely to be paraphrases. H3: If a query q hits titles t1 and t2, then t1 and t2 are likely to be paraphrases. Table 1: Hypotheses for extracting paraphrases. expansion terms for new queries. Note that the expansion terms are merely related terms of the queries, not necessarily paraphrases. There are other studies that use query logs for constructing ontologies (Sekine and Suzuki, 2007), learning named entities (Pas?ca, 2007), building user profiles (Richardson, 2008), correcting spelling errors (Ahmad and Kondrak, 2005), and so forth. 3 The Proposed Method 3.1 Basic Idea Nowadays, more and more users tend to search long queries with search engines. Many users even directly search questions to get exact answers. By analyzing our query log that records rich information including user queries, clicked urls, titles, etc., we find that most titles of clicked documents are highly related with search queries. Especially, paraphrases can be easily found from long queries and the corresponding clicked titles. This motivates us to extract paraphrases from query-tit
 and t are likely to be paraphrases. H2: If queries q1 and q2 hit the same title t, q1 and q2 are likely to be paraphrases. H3: If a query q hits titles t1 and t2, then t1 and t2 are likely to be paraphrases. Table 1: Hypotheses for extracting paraphrases. expansion terms for new queries. Note that the expansion terms are merely related terms of the queries, not necessarily paraphrases. There are other studies that use query logs for constructing ontologies (Sekine and Suzuki, 2007), learning named entities (Pas?ca, 2007), building user profiles (Richardson, 2008), correcting spelling errors (Ahmad and Kondrak, 2005), and so forth. 3 The Proposed Method 3.1 Basic Idea Nowadays, more and more users tend to search long queries with search engines. Many users even directly search questions to get exact answers. By analyzing our query log that records rich information including user queries, clicked urls, titles, etc., we find that most titles of clicked documents are highly related with search queries. Especially, paraphrases can be easily found from long queries and the corresponding clicked titles. This motivates us to extract paraphrases from query-title pairs. Here we introduce a concept hit that will be
eight of each word w in a vector is computed using a heuristic similar to tf-idf: W (w) = tf(w)? log( Nc(w) + 0.1) (5) where tf(w) is the frequency of w in the given s, c(w) is the number of times that w occurs in the corpus, N = maxw c(w). ? Edit Distance Feature FED. Let ED(s1, s2) be the edit distance at the word level between s1 and s2, we compute FED as follows: FED(s1, s2) = 1? ED(s1, s2) max{cw(s1), cw(s2)} (6) 3In FCOR, cw(s) of Equation (3) denotes the number of characters in s. 1320 ? Named Entity (NE) Similarity Feature FNE . NE information is critical in paraphrase identification (Shinyama et al, 2002). We therefore compute the NE similarity between s1 and s2 and take it as a feature. We employ a Chinese NE recognition tool that can recognize person names, locations, organizations, and numerals. The NE similarity is computed as: FNE(s1, s2) = cne(s1 ? s2) + 1 max{cne(s1), cne(s2)}+ 1 (7) where cne(s) denotes the number of NEs in s. Equation (7) guarantees FNE = 1 if there are no NEs in either s1 or s2. ? Pivot Fertility Feature FPF : FPF is a feature specially designed for paraphrase Q-Q and T-T extraction, which are based on the pivot approach4. Specifically, we define fertility of a pivot
 as ????? ? ?? ? ?? (what fruit can I eat on a diet)? and ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? (what fruit can help loss weight)?. ? Others (11.90%): candidate Q-T that cannot be classified into the 3 types above. The above analysis reveals that more than two thirds of candidate Q-T in the SAME class are in the ?word or phrase replacement? type, while the ones with structure changes are slightly more than 7%. We believe this is mainly because queries and titles are relatively short and their structures are simple. Thus structure rewriting can hardly be conducted. This distribution is in line with that reported in (Zhao et al, 2008). As for the RELA class, we find that 42.33% of such candidate Q-T share a problem of named entity mismatch, such as ??? (US) ?? ?? ??? and ??? (China) ?? ?? ?? ? ??. This indicates that the NE similarity feature is necessary in paraphrase validation. 4.2 Evaluation of Paraphrase Q-T The candidate Q-T extracted above are classified with a SVM classifier5 under its default setting. To evaluate the classifier, we run 5-fold cross validation with the 5000 human annotated data, in which we use 4000 for training and the rest 1000 for testing in each run. The evaluation criteria are 5We use libsvm-2
realp1 [X]?????? p2 ???? [X]?? (how to open [X] file) slot 7z; ashx; aspx; bib; cda; cdfs; cmp; cpi; csf; csv; cur; dat; dek... p1 ?? [X]??? p2 ?? [X]??? (poems about [X]) slot ?? (prairies);?? (Yangtze River); ?? (Mount Tai);?? (nostalgia)... Table 4: Examples of paraphrase patterns. ize that the method currently used for inducing paraphrase patterns is simple. Hence we will improve the method in our following experiments. Specifically, multiple slots will be allowed in a pair of patterns. In addition, we will try to apply the alignment techniques in the generation of paraphrase patterns, as Zhao et al (2008) did. 4.5 Analysis Feature Contribution. To investigate the contributions of different features used in classification, we tried different feature combinations for each of our three classifiers. The results are shown in Table 5, in which ?+? means the feature has contribution to the corresponding classifier. As can be seen, the character overlap rate feature (FCOR), cosine similarity feature (FCS), and NE similarity 1323 Feature Q-T Q-Q T-T FF + FLR + FWOR FCOR + + + FCS + + + FED + FNE + + + FPF + Table 5: Feature contribution. feature (FNE) are the most useful, which play important roles in 
