the user to limit the number of transitive inference steps for any inference rule. HOLMES also includes a few enhancements for dealing with information extracted from natural language. For example, HOLMES’s inference rules support substring/regex matching of ground assertions, to accommodate simple variations in text. HOLMES also can be restricted to only operate over proper nouns, which is useful for queries involving named entities. 2.3 Markov Logic Inference Rules HOLMES is given the following set of six domainindependent rules, which are similar to the upward monotone rules introduced by (MacCartney and Manning, 2007). 1. Observed relations are likely to be true: R(X,Y) :- ObservedInCorpus(X, R, Y) 2. Synonym substitution preserves meaning: RTR(X’,Y) :- RTR(X,Y) ∧ Synonym(X, X’) 3. RTR(X,Y’) :- RTR(X,Y) ∧ Synonym(Y, Y’) 4. Generalizations preserve meaning: RTR(X’,Y) :- RTR(X,Y) ∧ IS-A(X, X’) 5. RTR(X,Y’) :- RTR(X,Y) ∧ IS-A(Y, Y’) 6. Transitivity of Part Meronyms: RTR(X,Y’) :- RTR(X,Y) ∧ Part-Of(Y, Y’) where RTR matches ‘* in’ (e.g., ‘born in’). For example, if Q(X):-BornIn(X,‘France’), and we know from WordNet that Paris is in France, then by inference rule 6, we know that BornIn(X,‘Paris’) will yield vali
wer all queries in each domain scales with KB size. For these queries, and several others we tested (not shown here), inference time grows linearly with the size of the KB. Based on these results we believe that HOLMES can provide scalable inference over a wide variety of domains. 5 Related Work Textual Entailment systems are given two textual fragments, text T and hypothesis H, and attempt to decide if the meaning of H can be inferred from the meaning of T (Dagan et al., 2005). While many approaches have addressed this problem, our work is most closely related to that of (Raina et al., 2005; MacCartney and Manning, 2007; Tatu and Moldovan, 2006; Braz et al., 2005), which convert the inputs into logical forms and then attempt to ‘prove’ H from T plus a set of axioms. For instance, (Braz et al., 2005) represents T, H, and a set of rewrite rules in a description logic framework, and determines entailment by solving an integer lin86 ear program derived from that representation. These approaches and related ones (e.g., (Van Durme and Schubert, 2008)) use highly expressive representations, enabling them to express negation, temporal information, and more. HOLMES’s representation is much simpler— Markov Logic Horn 
