 ambiguous task, because a single name tends to be shared by many people. This ambiguity has recently become an active research topic and, simultaneously, in a relevant application domain for web search services: Zoominfo.com, Spock.com, 123people.com are examples of sites which perform web people search, although with limited disambiguation capabilities. A study of the query log of the AllTheWeb and Altavista search sites gives an idea of the relevance of the people search task: 11-17% of the queries were composed of a person name with additional terms and 4% were identified as person names (Spink et al, 2004). According to the data available from 1990 U.S. Census Bureau, only 90,000 different names are shared by 100 million people (Artiles et al, 2005). As the amount of information in the WWW grows, more of these people are mentioned in different web pages. Therefore, a query for a common name in the Web will usually produce a list of results where different people are mentioned. This situation leaves to the user the task of finding the pages relevant to the particular person he is interested in. The user might refine the original query with additional terms, but this risks excluding relevant docu
taneously, in a relevant application domain for web search services: Zoominfo.com, Spock.com, 123people.com are examples of sites which perform web people search, although with limited disambiguation capabilities. A study of the query log of the AllTheWeb and Altavista search sites gives an idea of the relevance of the people search task: 11-17% of the queries were composed of a person name with additional terms and 4% were identified as person names (Spink et al, 2004). According to the data available from 1990 U.S. Census Bureau, only 90,000 different names are shared by 100 million people (Artiles et al, 2005). As the amount of information in the WWW grows, more of these people are mentioned in different web pages. Therefore, a query for a common name in the Web will usually produce a list of results where different people are mentioned. This situation leaves to the user the task of finding the pages relevant to the particular person he is interested in. The user might refine the original query with additional terms, but this risks excluding relevant documents in the process. In some cases, the existence of a predominant person (such as a celebrity or a historical figure) makes it likely to dominat
s where different people are mentioned. This situation leaves to the user the task of finding the pages relevant to the particular person he is interested in. The user might refine the original query with additional terms, but this risks excluding relevant documents in the process. In some cases, the existence of a predominant person (such as a celebrity or a historical figure) makes it likely to dominate the ranking of search results, complicating the task of finding information about other people sharing her name. The Web People Search task, as defined in the first WePS evaluation campaign (Artiles et al, 2007), consists of grouping search results for a given name according to the different people that share it. Our goal in this paper is to study which document features can contribute to this task, and in particular to find out which is the role that can be played by named entities (NEs): (i) How reliable is NEs overlap between documents as a source of evidence to cluster pages? (ii) How much recall does it provide? (iii) How unique is this signal? (i.e. is it redundant with other sources of information such as n-gram overlap?); and (iv) How sensitive is this signal to the peculiarities of a given N
ion 3 and our empirical study in Section 4. The paper ends with some conclusions in Section 5. 2 Previous work In this section we will discuss (i) the state of the art in Web People Search in general, focusing on which features are used to solve the problem; and (ii) lessons learnt from the WePS evaluation campaign where most approaches to the problem have been tested and compared. The disambiguation of person names in Web results is usually compared to two other Natural Language Processing tasks: Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) (Agirre and Edmonds, 2006) and Cross-document Coreference (CDC) (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998). Most of early research work on person name ambiguity focuses on the CDC problem or uses methods found in the WSD literature. It is only recently that the web name ambiguity has been approached as a separate problem and defined as an NLP task - Web People Search - on its own (Artiles et al, 2005; Artiles et al, 2007). Therefore, it is useful to point out some crucial differences between WSD, CRC and WePS: ? WSD typically concentrates in the disambiguation of common words (nouns, verbs, adjectives) for which a relatively small number of senses exist, compared to the hundreds or thousands of pe
ation campaign where most approaches to the problem have been tested and compared. The disambiguation of person names in Web results is usually compared to two other Natural Language Processing tasks: Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) (Agirre and Edmonds, 2006) and Cross-document Coreference (CDC) (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998). Most of early research work on person name ambiguity focuses on the CDC problem or uses methods found in the WSD literature. It is only recently that the web name ambiguity has been approached as a separate problem and defined as an NLP task - Web People Search - on its own (Artiles et al, 2005; Artiles et al, 2007). Therefore, it is useful to point out some crucial differences between WSD, CRC and WePS: ? WSD typically concentrates in the disambiguation of common words (nouns, verbs, adjectives) for which a relatively small number of senses exist, compared to the hundreds or thousands of people that can share the same name. ? WSD can rely on dictionaries to define the number of possible senses for a word. In the case of name ambiguity no such dictionary is available, even though in theory there is an exact number of people that can be accounted as sharing the same name. ? The objec
most approaches to the problem have been tested and compared. The disambiguation of person names in Web results is usually compared to two other Natural Language Processing tasks: Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) (Agirre and Edmonds, 2006) and Cross-document Coreference (CDC) (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998). Most of early research work on person name ambiguity focuses on the CDC problem or uses methods found in the WSD literature. It is only recently that the web name ambiguity has been approached as a separate problem and defined as an NLP task - Web People Search - on its own (Artiles et al, 2005; Artiles et al, 2007). Therefore, it is useful to point out some crucial differences between WSD, CRC and WePS: ? WSD typically concentrates in the disambiguation of common words (nouns, verbs, adjectives) for which a relatively small number of senses exist, compared to the hundreds or thousands of people that can share the same name. ? WSD can rely on dictionaries to define the number of possible senses for a word. In the case of name ambiguity no such dictionary is available, even though in theory there is an exact number of people that can be accounted as sharing the same name. ? The objective of CDC is to reco
annotated testbed. In the WePS task, systems were given the top web search results produced by a person name query. The expected output was a clustering of these results, where each cluster should contain all and only those documents referring to the same individual. 2.1 Features for Web People Search Many different features have been used to represent documents where an ambiguous name is mentioned. The most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are lin
 WePS task, systems were given the top web search results produced by a person name query. The expected output was a clustering of these results, where each cluster should contain all and only those documents referring to the same individual. 2.1 Features for Web People Search Many different features have been used to represent documents where an ambiguous name is mentioned. The most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mention
ustering of these results, where each cluster should contain all and only those documents referring to the same individual. 2.1 Features for Web People Search Many different features have been used to represent documents where an ambiguous name is mentioned. The most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in thi
 referring to the same individual. 2.1 Features for Web People Search Many different features have been used to represent documents where an ambiguous name is mentioned. The most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in this way. These approaches are yet to be applied to the specific task of grouping sear
individual. 2.1 Features for Web People Search Many different features have been used to represent documents where an ambiguous name is mentioned. The most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in this way. These approaches are yet to be applied to the specific task of grouping search results. Biographical fea
 been used to represent documents where an ambiguous name is mentioned. The most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in this way. These approaches are yet to be applied to the specific task of grouping search results. Biographical features are strongly related to NEs and have also been proposed
e most basic is a Bag of Words (BoW) representation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in this way. These approaches are yet to be applied to the specific task of grouping search results. Biographical features are strongly related to NEs and have also been proposed for this task due to its high precision. Mann (2003) extracted these features using l
ntation of the document text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in this way. These approaches are yet to be applied to the specific task of grouping search results. Biographical features are strongly related to NEs and have also been proposed for this task due to its high precision. Mann (2003) extracted these features using lexical patterns to group pages abo
ocument text. Withindocument coreference resolution has been applied to produce summaries of text surrounding occurrences of the name (Bagga and Baldwin, 1998; Gooi and Allan, 2004). Nevertheless, the full document text is present in most systems, sometimes as the only feature (Sugiyama and Okumura, 2007) and sometimes in combination with others - see for instance (Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007)-. Other representations use the link structure (Malin, 2005) or generate graph representations of the extracted features (Kalashnikov et al, 2007). Some researchers (Cucerzan, 2007; Nguyen and Cao, 2008) have explored the use of Wikipedia information to improve the disambiguation process. Wikipedia provides candidate entities that are linked to specific mentions in a text. The obvious limitation of this approach is that only celebrities and historical figures can be identified in this way. These approaches are yet to be applied to the specific task of grouping search results. Biographical features are strongly related to NEs and have also been proposed for this task due to its high precision. Mann (2003) extracted these features using lexical patterns to group pages about the same person. Al-
rmation (person name, title, organisation, email address and phone number) improves the clustering results when combined with lexical features (words from the doc535 ument) and NE (person, location, organisation). The most used feature for the Web People Search task, however, are NEs. Ravin (1999) introduced a rule-based approach that tackles both variation and ambiguity analysing the structure of names. In most recent research, NEs (person, location and organisations) are extracted from the text and used as a source of evidence to calculate the similarity between documents -see for instance (Blume, 2005; Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007; Kalashnikov et al, 2007)- . For instance, Blume (2005) uses NEs coocurring with the ambiguous mentions of a name as a key feature for the disambiguation process. Saggion (2008) compared the performace of NEs versus BoW features. In his experiments a only a representation based on Organisation NEs outperformed the word based approach. Furthermore, this result is highly dependent on the choice of metric weighting (NEs achieve high precision at the cost of a low recall and viceversa for BoW). In summary, the most common document representations 
on name, title, organisation, email address and phone number) improves the clustering results when combined with lexical features (words from the doc535 ument) and NE (person, location, organisation). The most used feature for the Web People Search task, however, are NEs. Ravin (1999) introduced a rule-based approach that tackles both variation and ambiguity analysing the structure of names. In most recent research, NEs (person, location and organisations) are extracted from the text and used as a source of evidence to calculate the similarity between documents -see for instance (Blume, 2005; Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007; Kalashnikov et al, 2007)- . For instance, Blume (2005) uses NEs coocurring with the ambiguous mentions of a name as a key feature for the disambiguation process. Saggion (2008) compared the performace of NEs versus BoW features. In his experiments a only a representation based on Organisation NEs outperformed the word based approach. Furthermore, this result is highly dependent on the choice of metric weighting (NEs achieve high precision at the cost of a low recall and viceversa for BoW). In summary, the most common document representations for the problem include
ation, email address and phone number) improves the clustering results when combined with lexical features (words from the doc535 ument) and NE (person, location, organisation). The most used feature for the Web People Search task, however, are NEs. Ravin (1999) introduced a rule-based approach that tackles both variation and ambiguity analysing the structure of names. In most recent research, NEs (person, location and organisations) are extracted from the text and used as a source of evidence to calculate the similarity between documents -see for instance (Blume, 2005; Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007; Kalashnikov et al, 2007)- . For instance, Blume (2005) uses NEs coocurring with the ambiguous mentions of a name as a key feature for the disambiguation process. Saggion (2008) compared the performace of NEs versus BoW features. In his experiments a only a representation based on Organisation NEs outperformed the word based approach. Furthermore, this result is highly dependent on the choice of metric weighting (NEs achieve high precision at the cost of a low recall and viceversa for BoW). In summary, the most common document representations for the problem include BoW and NEs, and in some c
one number) improves the clustering results when combined with lexical features (words from the doc535 ument) and NE (person, location, organisation). The most used feature for the Web People Search task, however, are NEs. Ravin (1999) introduced a rule-based approach that tackles both variation and ambiguity analysing the structure of names. In most recent research, NEs (person, location and organisations) are extracted from the text and used as a source of evidence to calculate the similarity between documents -see for instance (Blume, 2005; Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007; Kalashnikov et al, 2007)- . For instance, Blume (2005) uses NEs coocurring with the ambiguous mentions of a name as a key feature for the disambiguation process. Saggion (2008) compared the performace of NEs versus BoW features. In his experiments a only a representation based on Organisation NEs outperformed the word based approach. Furthermore, this result is highly dependent on the choice of metric weighting (NEs achieve high precision at the cost of a low recall and viceversa for BoW). In summary, the most common document representations for the problem include BoW and NEs, and in some cases biographical features
ed feature for the Web People Search task, however, are NEs. Ravin (1999) introduced a rule-based approach that tackles both variation and ambiguity analysing the structure of names. In most recent research, NEs (person, location and organisations) are extracted from the text and used as a source of evidence to calculate the similarity between documents -see for instance (Blume, 2005; Chen and Martin, 2007; Popescu and Magnini, 2007; Kalashnikov et al, 2007)- . For instance, Blume (2005) uses NEs coocurring with the ambiguous mentions of a name as a key feature for the disambiguation process. Saggion (2008) compared the performace of NEs versus BoW features. In his experiments a only a representation based on Organisation NEs outperformed the word based approach. Furthermore, this result is highly dependent on the choice of metric weighting (NEs achieve high precision at the cost of a low recall and viceversa for BoW). In summary, the most common document representations for the problem include BoW and NEs, and in some cases biographical features extracted from the text. 2.2 Named entities in the WePS campaign Among the 16 teams that submitted results for the first WePS campaign, 10 of them 1 us
 and NEs, and in some cases biographical features extracted from the text. 2.2 Named entities in the WePS campaign Among the 16 teams that submitted results for the first WePS campaign, 10 of them 1 used NEs in their document representation. This makes NEs the second most common type of feature; only the BoW feature was more popular. Other features used by the systems include noun phrases (Chen and Martin, 2007), word n-grams (Popescu and Magnini, 2007), emails and URLs (del ValleAgudo et al, 2007), etc. In 2009, the second WePS campaign showed similar trends regarding the use of NE features (Artiles et al, 2009). Due to the complexity of systems, the results of the WePS evaluation do not provide a direct answer regarding the advantages of using NEs over other computationally lighter features such as BoW or word n-grams. But the WePS campaigns did provide a useful, standardised resource to perform the type of studies that were not possible before. In the next Section we describe this dataset and how it has been adapted for our purposes. 1 By team ID: CU-COMSEM, IRST-BP, PSNUS, SHEF, FICO, UNN, AUG, JHU1, DFKI2, UC3M13 3 Experimental settings 3.1 Data We have used the testbeds from WePS-1 (Artiles et a
et al, 2009). Due to the complexity of systems, the results of the WePS evaluation do not provide a direct answer regarding the advantages of using NEs over other computationally lighter features such as BoW or word n-grams. But the WePS campaigns did provide a useful, standardised resource to perform the type of studies that were not possible before. In the next Section we describe this dataset and how it has been adapted for our purposes. 1 By team ID: CU-COMSEM, IRST-BP, PSNUS, SHEF, FICO, UNN, AUG, JHU1, DFKI2, UC3M13 3 Experimental settings 3.1 Data We have used the testbeds from WePS-1 (Artiles et al., 2007) 2 and WePS-2 (Artiles et al, 2009) evaluation campaigns 3 . Each WePS dataset consists of 30 test cases: a random sample of 10 names from the US Census, 10 names from Wikipedia, and 10 names from Programme Committees in the Computer Science domain (ACL and ECDL). Each test case consists of, at most, 100 web pages from the top search results of a web search engine, using a (quoted) person name as query. For each test case, annotators were asked to organise the web pages in groups where all documents refer to the same person. In cases where a web page refers to more than one person using the sa
ver possible, we have generated local versions of these features that only consider the sentences of the text that mention the ambiguous person name 4 . Token-based features considered include document full text tokens, lemmas (using the OAK analyser, see below), title, snippet (returned in the list of search results) and URL (tokenised using non alphanumeric characters as boundaries) tokens. English stopwords were removed, including Web specific stopwords, as file and domain extensions, etc. We generated word n-grams of length 2 to 5, 2 The WePS-1 corpus includes data from the Web03 testbed (Mann, 2006) which follows similar annotation guidelines, although the number of document per ambiguous name is more variable. 3 Both corpora are available from the WePS website http://nlp.uned.es/weps 4 A very sparse feature might never occur in a sentence with the person name. In that cases there is no local version of the feature. 536 using the sentences found in the document text. Punctuation tokens (commas, dots, etc) were generalised as the same token. N-grams were discarded when they were composed only of stopwords or when they did not contain at least one token formed by alphanumeric characters (e
tanford NE Recogniser 6 is a high-performance Named Entity Recognition (NER) system based on Machine Learning. It provides a general implementation of linear chain Conditional Random Field sequence models and includes a model trained on data from CoNLL, MUC6, MUC7, and ACE newswire. Three types of entities were extracted: person, location and organisation. OAK 7 is a rule based English analyser that includes many functionalities (POS tagger, stemmer, chunker, Named Entity (NE) tagger, dependency analyser, parser, etc). It provides a fine grained NE recognition covering 100 different NE types (Sekine, 2008). Given the sparseness of most of these fine-grained NE types, we have merged them in coarser groups: event, facility, location, person, organisation, product, periodx, timex and numex. We have also used the results of a baseline NE recognition for comparison purposes. This method detects sequences of two or more uppercased tokens in the text, and discards those that are found lowercased in the same document or that are composed solely of stopwords. Other features are: emails, outgoing links found in the web pages and two boolean flags that indicate whether a pair of documents is linked or bel
