rs can be calculated only when this specific computational tool is utilized. However, the SCBD is a general-purpose tool and was not designed for providing stylistic information exclusively. Thus, any NLP tool (e.g., part-of-speech taggers, parsers, etc.) can provide similar measures. The appropriate analysis-level style markers have to be defined according to the methodology used by the tool in order to analyze the text. For example, some similar measures have been used in stylistic experiments in information retrieval on the basis of a robust parser built for information retrieval purposes (Strzalkowski 1994). This parser produces trees to represent the structure of the sentences that compose the text. However, it is set to &quot;skip&quot; or surrender attempts to parse clauses after reaching a time-out threshold. When the parser skips, it notes that in the parse tree. The measures proposed by Karlgren (1999) as indicators of clausal complexity are the average parse tree depth and the number of parser skips per sentence, which in essence are analysis-level style markers. 4. Style Markers for Modem Greek As mentioned above, the subset of style markers used for Modern Greek depends on the text analysis by th
ch case the Mahalanobis distances from each of the group centroids are computed and the case is classified into the closest group. The Mahalanobis distance d of a vector x from a mean vector itt, is given by the formula: d2 (x — mx)'CV(x— mx) where C, is the covariance matrix of x. Using this classification method we can also derive the probability that a case belongs to a particular group (i.e., posterior probabilities), which is roughly proportional to the Mahalanobis distance from that group centroid. Discriminant analysis has been employed by researchers in automatic text genre detection (Biber 1993b; Karlgren and Cutting 1994) since it offers a simple and robust solution despite the fact that it presupposes normal distributions of the discriminating variables. 6. Text Genre Detection 6.1 Genre-based Corpus Since no Modern Greek corpus covering a wide range of text genres was available, we decided to compose one from scratch. The corpus used in experiments in Michos et at. (1996) includes a limited number of carefully selected and manually edited texts divided into generic categories (e.g., journalistic, scientific, etc.). In general, the use of already existing corpora not built for tex
