 uses information about syntactic constituency, adjacency to a verb, and constituent length to determine prosodic phrasing for synthetic speech. A central goal of our work has been to characterize &quot;discourse neutral&quot; phrasing, i.e. sentence-level phrasing patterns that are independent of discourse semantics. Our account builds on Bachenko et al (1986), but differs in its treatment of clausal structure and predicate-argument relations. Results so far indicate that the current system performs well when measured against a corpus of judgments of prosodic phrasing. 1 INTRODUCTION In previous work (Bachenko et al 1986), we described an experimental text-to-speech system that determined pro- sodic phrasing for the Olive-Liberman synthesizer (Olive and Liberman 1985). The system generated phrase bound- aries using information derived from the syntactic struc- ture of a sentence. While we saw significant improvements in the resulting synthesized speech, we also observed prob- lems with the system. Often these stemmed from our assumptions that both clausal structure and predicate- argument relations were important in determining prosodic phrasing. This paper reconsiders those assumptions and describes an analys
A central goal of our work has been to characterize &quot;discourse neutral&quot; phrasing, i.e. sentence-level phrasing patterns that are independent of discourse semantics. Our account builds on Bachenko et al (1986), but differs in its treatment of clausal structure and predicate-argument relations. Results so far indicate that the current system performs well when measured against a corpus of judgments of prosodic phrasing. 1 INTRODUCTION In previous work (Bachenko et al 1986), we described an experimental text-to-speech system that determined pro- sodic phrasing for the Olive-Liberman synthesizer (Olive and Liberman 1985). The system generated phrase bound- aries using information derived from the syntactic struc- ture of a sentence. While we saw significant improvements in the resulting synthesized speech, we also observed prob- lems with the system. Often these stemmed from our assumptions that both clausal structure and predicate- argument relations were important in determining prosodic phrasing. This paper reconsiders those assumptions and describes an analysis of phrasing that we believe corrects many of the problems of the earlier version. Like the earlier version, it has been implemented in a text-to-s
trength of prosodic phrase boundaries. Our current analysis rests on two ideas. First, it is possible to describe a level of prosodic phrasing that is independent ofdiscourse semantics. Second, this discourse- neutral phrasing depends on a mix of syntactic and nonsyn- tactic factors; chiefly, syntactic onstituency, left-to-right word order, and constituent length. There is no necessary fit between syntactic structure and phrasing, since prosodic phrasing may ignore major syntactic boundaries in order to satisfy the constraints on phrase length. Our approach thus follows that of Grosjean et al (1979), namely, that phras- ing reflects &quot; . . . two (sometimes conflicting) demands on the speaker: the need to respect he linguistic structure of the sentence and the need to balance the length of the constituents in the output&quot; (p. 75). Section 2 will outline our analysis, focusing on the rela- tionship between syntactic and prosodic structure. The analysis is developed within the framework of generative grammar, but we believe it is consistent with other ap- proaches to syntactic description. 1 Our main point will be that the syntax plays a necessary but not sufficient role in determining phrasi
nt quality. For exam- ple, the vowel in the preposition to is normally weak, as in 10. But if a gap like the one that is associated with the question word who in 11 follows the preposition, the vowel of to is strong. 10 We spoke to John. (to pronounced/t~/) 11. Who did you speak to? (to pronounced/tu/) When it comes to sentence-level prosody, especially phras- ing, it is often true, as we will see below, that a sequence of words dominated by the same syntactic node cohere more closely than a sequence of words dominated by two dif- ferent nodes. This observation has led some researchers, e.g., Cooper and Paccia-Cooper (1980), to claim a direct mapping between the syntactic phrase and the prosodic phra,;e. However, this claim is controversial because of the misa'dgnments that occur between the two levels of phras- ing. For example, in considering the connection between syntax and phrasing, the linguistic literature most often refers to examples of embedded sentences. Sentences like 12, from Chomsky (1965), are frequently cited. (Square brackets mark off the NP constituents hat contain embed- ded sentences.) 12. This is \[uP the cat that caught \[NP the rat that stole \[NP the cheese\]\]\] In such cases, the syntac
ow, that a sequence of words dominated by the same syntactic node cohere more closely than a sequence of words dominated by two dif- ferent nodes. This observation has led some researchers, e.g., Cooper and Paccia-Cooper (1980), to claim a direct mapping between the syntactic phrase and the prosodic phra,;e. However, this claim is controversial because of the misa'dgnments that occur between the two levels of phras- ing. For example, in considering the connection between syntax and phrasing, the linguistic literature most often refers to examples of embedded sentences. Sentences like 12, from Chomsky (1965), are frequently cited. (Square brackets mark off the NP constituents hat contain embed- ded sentences.) 12. This is \[uP the cat that caught \[NP the rat that stole \[NP the cheese\]\]\] In such cases, the syntactic onstituency indicated by brack- eting is not in alignment with the prosodic phrasing. In- stead, 12 has the prosodic phrasing in 13a. The phrasing in 13b, which most closely matches constituency, is strange at best. (In these and other examples, the most prominent prosodic boundaries are marked by vertical bars.) 13. a. This is the cat II that caught he rat 1\[ that stole the chee
g in 13a. The phrasing in 13b, which most closely matches constituency, is strange at best. (In these and other examples, the most prominent prosodic boundaries are marked by vertical bars.) 13. a. This is the cat II that caught he rat 1\[ that stole the cheese, b. ??This is II the cat that caught II the rat that stole \[\[ the cheese. To account for such mismatches, &quot;readjustment rules&quot; that change constituent structure by adjoining each embedded sente, nce to the node dominating it have been posited. The result is a flattened structure that more accurately reflects the prosodic phrasing. In Chomsky and Halle (1968), this flattening process is not part of the grammar. Rather, it is viewed as &quot; . . . a performance factor, related to the diffi- culty of producing right branching structures such as \[ 12\]&quot; (p. 372). Thus phrasing, in their approach, is only indi- rectly related to syntax, since readjustment is done by special rules outside the grammar proper. Langendoen (1975) proposes readjustment rules similar to those of Chomsky and Halle, but he claims that the readjustment of structure is part of the grammar, not part of the performance model. He thus makes explicit what is often a tacit assumption i 
adjustment rules&quot; that change constituent structure by adjoining each embedded sente, nce to the node dominating it have been posited. The result is a flattened structure that more accurately reflects the prosodic phrasing. In Chomsky and Halle (1968), this flattening process is not part of the grammar. Rather, it is viewed as &quot; . . . a performance factor, related to the diffi- culty of producing right branching structures such as \[ 12\]&quot; (p. 372). Thus phrasing, in their approach, is only indi- rectly related to syntax, since readjustment is done by special rules outside the grammar proper. Langendoen (1975) proposes readjustment rules similar to those of Chomsky and Halle, but he claims that the readjustment of structure is part of the grammar, not part of the performance model. He thus makes explicit what is often a tacit assumption i both the linguistic and psycho- linguistic literature2--that there is a direct connection between syntactic onstituency and prosodic phrasing, with apparent misalignments readjusted before syntax inter- face,; with prosodic phonology. Langendoen's proposal works well for sentences such as 12 because it predicts that important prosodic phrase bound- aries will coin
 often cohere. Where misalign- ments between the syntactic and the prosodic phrasing occur, however, the notion of readjusting the syntax to fit the prosody is problematic and, we believe, compares unfa- vorably with an approach that views the semantic and phonological components a contributing to prosodic phrase boundary determination. 2.1.2 SEMANTICS AND PROSODIC PHRASING The syntax/prosody misalignment may be viewed as result- ing in part from semantic onsiderations. Both predicate- argument relations and discourse factors have been exam- ined for their possible input to prosodic phrasing. Crystal (1969) claims that prosodic phrase boundaries will co-occur with grammatical functions uch as subject, predicate, modifier, and adjunct. Selkirk (1984) and Ne- spor and Vogel (1986) take a similar approach, but within a different heoretical framework. Previous versions of our work, as described in Bachenko et al (1986) also assume that phrasing is dependent on predicate-argument struc- ture. The problem here is that the phrasing in observed data often ignores the argument status of constituents. In 17a-f, for example, the phrasing makes no distinction between arguments and adjuncts. All of the sente
ody is problematic and, we believe, compares unfa- vorably with an approach that views the semantic and phonological components a contributing to prosodic phrase boundary determination. 2.1.2 SEMANTICS AND PROSODIC PHRASING The syntax/prosody misalignment may be viewed as result- ing in part from semantic onsiderations. Both predicate- argument relations and discourse factors have been exam- ined for their possible input to prosodic phrasing. Crystal (1969) claims that prosodic phrase boundaries will co-occur with grammatical functions uch as subject, predicate, modifier, and adjunct. Selkirk (1984) and Ne- spor and Vogel (1986) take a similar approach, but within a different heoretical framework. Previous versions of our work, as described in Bachenko et al (1986) also assume that phrasing is dependent on predicate-argument struc- ture. The problem here is that the phrasing in observed data often ignores the argument status of constituents. In 17a-f, for example, the phrasing makes no distinction between arguments and adjuncts. All of the sentences have the same X(VY) pattern even though Y is a complement in the first case (thefirst serious attempt) and an adjunct in the others. (The co
ieve, compares unfa- vorably with an approach that views the semantic and phonological components a contributing to prosodic phrase boundary determination. 2.1.2 SEMANTICS AND PROSODIC PHRASING The syntax/prosody misalignment may be viewed as result- ing in part from semantic onsiderations. Both predicate- argument relations and discourse factors have been exam- ined for their possible input to prosodic phrasing. Crystal (1969) claims that prosodic phrase boundaries will co-occur with grammatical functions uch as subject, predicate, modifier, and adjunct. Selkirk (1984) and Ne- spor and Vogel (1986) take a similar approach, but within a different heoretical framework. Previous versions of our work, as described in Bachenko et al (1986) also assume that phrasing is dependent on predicate-argument struc- ture. The problem here is that the phrasing in observed data often ignores the argument status of constituents. In 17a-f, for example, the phrasing makes no distinction between arguments and adjuncts. All of the sentences have the same X(VY) pattern even though Y is a complement in the first case (thefirst serious attempt) and an adjunct in the others. (The complement in 17a and the adjunc
 phrase boundary determination. 2.1.2 SEMANTICS AND PROSODIC PHRASING The syntax/prosody misalignment may be viewed as result- ing in part from semantic onsiderations. Both predicate- argument relations and discourse factors have been exam- ined for their possible input to prosodic phrasing. Crystal (1969) claims that prosodic phrase boundaries will co-occur with grammatical functions uch as subject, predicate, modifier, and adjunct. Selkirk (1984) and Ne- spor and Vogel (1986) take a similar approach, but within a different heoretical framework. Previous versions of our work, as described in Bachenko et al (1986) also assume that phrasing is dependent on predicate-argument struc- ture. The problem here is that the phrasing in observed data often ignores the argument status of constituents. In 17a-f, for example, the phrasing makes no distinction between arguments and adjuncts. All of the sentences have the same X(VY) pattern even though Y is a complement in the first case (thefirst serious attempt) and an adjunct in the others. (The complement in 17a and the adjuncts in 17b-f are italicized.) 17. a. A British expedition II launched the first serious attempt. b. A single bright light \[I shone out from
ement in the first case (thefirst serious attempt) and an adjunct in the others. (The complement in 17a and the adjuncts in 17b-f are italicized.) 17. a. A British expedition II launched the first serious attempt. b. A single bright light \[I shone out from the darkness. c. There were several little changes I\] carried out about that time. d. Were there any gypsies II camping in the planta- tion . . . . e . . . . like the claws of a crab I\] thrown out on each side. f. Two years II have passed since then. The relation between discourse and prosodic phrasing has been examined in some detail by Bing (1985), who argues that each noun phrase in an utterance constitutes a separate prosodic phrase unless it is destressed because of reference to previous discourse. Bing also observes that constituents that refer to items newly introduced into a discourse tend to be longer. This may be the reason that word count and syllable count play a prominent role in prosodic phrasing (see Section 2.1.3.). To our knowledge, no work has explicitly explored the relation between the length of a constituent and its status in the discourse. Hirschberg and Litman (1987) and Litman and Hirsch- berg (1990) also examine 
scourse and prosodic phrasing has been examined in some detail by Bing (1985), who argues that each noun phrase in an utterance constitutes a separate prosodic phrase unless it is destressed because of reference to previous discourse. Bing also observes that constituents that refer to items newly introduced into a discourse tend to be longer. This may be the reason that word count and syllable count play a prominent role in prosodic phrasing (see Section 2.1.3.). To our knowledge, no work has explicitly explored the relation between the length of a constituent and its status in the discourse. Hirschberg and Litman (1987) and Litman and Hirsch- berg (1990) also examine the relation between discourse and prosodic phrasing. Their work succeeds in distinguish- ing the use of items like now, so, and well as discourse cues from their denotative l xical use on the basis of a complex combination of pitch accent ype and phrasing. The Hirschberg and Litman studies identify a specific discourse distinction that relates to phrasing. These studies are not intended to give a picture of the extent o which discourse relates to phrasing. On the other hand, Bing's work gives a broader picture of the relation between dis- cours
etail by Bing (1985), who argues that each noun phrase in an utterance constitutes a separate prosodic phrase unless it is destressed because of reference to previous discourse. Bing also observes that constituents that refer to items newly introduced into a discourse tend to be longer. This may be the reason that word count and syllable count play a prominent role in prosodic phrasing (see Section 2.1.3.). To our knowledge, no work has explicitly explored the relation between the length of a constituent and its status in the discourse. Hirschberg and Litman (1987) and Litman and Hirsch- berg (1990) also examine the relation between discourse and prosodic phrasing. Their work succeeds in distinguish- ing the use of items like now, so, and well as discourse cues from their denotative l xical use on the basis of a complex combination of pitch accent ype and phrasing. The Hirschberg and Litman studies identify a specific discourse distinction that relates to phrasing. These studies are not intended to give a picture of the extent o which discourse relates to phrasing. On the other hand, Bing's work gives a broader picture of the relation between dis- course and phrasing, but it deals only w
 complement to some more basic set of determinants, syntactic and/or phonological. In other words, when prosodic features that reflect facts of the discourse are removed, is there a residual, neutral phrasing? Our work on the prosodic phrase status of clause final prepositional phrases, which we discuss below, suggests the existence of a discourse-neutral phrasing that depends on syntactic onstituency mediated by string adjacency and length of a potential prosodic phrase. 3 Such phrasing pro- vides us with a typical phrasing pattern analogous to the typical phrasal stress patterns examined in Liberman and Prince (1977), which &quot;are often overwhelmed by the chiar- oscuro of highlight and background in discourse, but retain the status of null-hypothesis patterns that emerge when Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 157 J. Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English there is no good reason to take some other option&quot; (p. 251). This approach to prosodic phrase boundary determination brings us closer to a framework in which phonological, syntactic, and discourse features all contribute to prosodic phrasing. The possibility of a discourse-neutral prosodic phra
ed we found only 14 percent of the phrases to be discourse-determined. The identification ofa preferred phrasing that is indepen- dent of discourse also aids us in identifying and characteriz- ing the discourse features that impinge on prosodic phras- ing. Several well-known discourse phenomena---coreference, contrast, and parallelism--affected the phrasing of the clause final prepositional phrases in our corpus. We are left with three or four unexplained cases that are suggestive of a discourse xplanation. 2.1.3 PHONOLOGICAL LENGTH AND PROSODIC PHRASING The psycholinguistic studies of Martin (1970), Allen (1975), Hitlinger et al (1976), Grosjean et al (1979), Dommer- gues and Grosjean (1983), and Gee and Grosjean (1983), responding to the idea of readjusted syntax as the source of prosodic phrasing, show that grammatical structure, even if readjusted, is not in itself a reliable predictor of prosodic phrasing: mismatches between syntax and prosody occur often and systematically, and can be related to specific nonsyntactic factors such as length and word frequency. For example, although prosodic boundaries between sub- ject and verb do occur, there also exist prosodic patterns in which t
und only 14 percent of the phrases to be discourse-determined. The identification ofa preferred phrasing that is indepen- dent of discourse also aids us in identifying and characteriz- ing the discourse features that impinge on prosodic phras- ing. Several well-known discourse phenomena---coreference, contrast, and parallelism--affected the phrasing of the clause final prepositional phrases in our corpus. We are left with three or four unexplained cases that are suggestive of a discourse xplanation. 2.1.3 PHONOLOGICAL LENGTH AND PROSODIC PHRASING The psycholinguistic studies of Martin (1970), Allen (1975), Hitlinger et al (1976), Grosjean et al (1979), Dommer- gues and Grosjean (1983), and Gee and Grosjean (1983), responding to the idea of readjusted syntax as the source of prosodic phrasing, show that grammatical structure, even if readjusted, is not in itself a reliable predictor of prosodic phrasing: mismatches between syntax and prosody occur often and systematically, and can be related to specific nonsyntactic factors such as length and word frequency. For example, although prosodic boundaries between sub- ject and verb do occur, there also exist prosodic patterns in which the boundary co
termined. The identification ofa preferred phrasing that is indepen- dent of discourse also aids us in identifying and characteriz- ing the discourse features that impinge on prosodic phras- ing. Several well-known discourse phenomena---coreference, contrast, and parallelism--affected the phrasing of the clause final prepositional phrases in our corpus. We are left with three or four unexplained cases that are suggestive of a discourse xplanation. 2.1.3 PHONOLOGICAL LENGTH AND PROSODIC PHRASING The psycholinguistic studies of Martin (1970), Allen (1975), Hitlinger et al (1976), Grosjean et al (1979), Dommer- gues and Grosjean (1983), and Gee and Grosjean (1983), responding to the idea of readjusted syntax as the source of prosodic phrasing, show that grammatical structure, even if readjusted, is not in itself a reliable predictor of prosodic phrasing: mismatches between syntax and prosody occur often and systematically, and can be related to specific nonsyntactic factors such as length and word frequency. For example, although prosodic boundaries between sub- ject and verb do occur, there also exist prosodic patterns in which the boundary comes between the verb and object, i.e., the data
asing that is indepen- dent of discourse also aids us in identifying and characteriz- ing the discourse features that impinge on prosodic phras- ing. Several well-known discourse phenomena---coreference, contrast, and parallelism--affected the phrasing of the clause final prepositional phrases in our corpus. We are left with three or four unexplained cases that are suggestive of a discourse xplanation. 2.1.3 PHONOLOGICAL LENGTH AND PROSODIC PHRASING The psycholinguistic studies of Martin (1970), Allen (1975), Hitlinger et al (1976), Grosjean et al (1979), Dommer- gues and Grosjean (1983), and Gee and Grosjean (1983), responding to the idea of readjusted syntax as the source of prosodic phrasing, show that grammatical structure, even if readjusted, is not in itself a reliable predictor of prosodic phrasing: mismatches between syntax and prosody occur often and systematically, and can be related to specific nonsyntactic factors such as length and word frequency. For example, although prosodic boundaries between sub- ject and verb do occur, there also exist prosodic patterns in which the boundary comes between the verb and object, i.e., the data reveal both X(VY) and (XV)Y groupings. Grosjean et al (1979) c
n the major constituents of a sentence are roughly equal in length; for example, the main prosodic phrase break corre- sponds to the subject-predicate boundary in Waiters who remember well \]\[ serve orders correctly. Discrepancies in length throw constituents off balance, and so prosodic phrasing will cross constituent boundaries in order to give the phrases similar lengths; this is the case in Chickens were eating I\[ the remaining green vegetables, where the subject-predicate boundary finds no prosodic correspondent. 4 The most explicit version of this approach is the analysis presented in Gee and Grosjean (1983) (henceforth G&G). Drawing on the psycholinguistic studies mentioned above and on aspects of the grammar of prosody outlined in Selkirk (1984), G&G propose an algorithm for mapping syntactic structure onto a hierarchical representation of phrasing; the rules they present accomplish this by integrat- ing syntactic information (e.g. constituent s ructure, left-to- right o:rdering) with information about constituent length. We have found that their rules, which are described in detail, provide a productive model for investigations of phrasing, and in what follows we shall frequently refer to thei
 in Waiters who remember well \]\[ serve orders correctly. Discrepancies in length throw constituents off balance, and so prosodic phrasing will cross constituent boundaries in order to give the phrases similar lengths; this is the case in Chickens were eating I\[ the remaining green vegetables, where the subject-predicate boundary finds no prosodic correspondent. 4 The most explicit version of this approach is the analysis presented in Gee and Grosjean (1983) (henceforth G&G). Drawing on the psycholinguistic studies mentioned above and on aspects of the grammar of prosody outlined in Selkirk (1984), G&G propose an algorithm for mapping syntactic structure onto a hierarchical representation of phrasing; the rules they present accomplish this by integrat- ing syntactic information (e.g. constituent s ructure, left-to- right o:rdering) with information about constituent length. We have found that their rules, which are described in detail, provide a productive model for investigations of phrasing, and in what follows we shall frequently refer to their analysis. But, as we will show, G&G fall short of providing a comprehensive theory. Their rules are too limited and their syntax too undersp
 theory of syntax/prosody relations that we could test in an experimental text-to- speech system. We approached the problem with the as- sumption that there is a level of prosodic phrase determina- tion that does not include discourse factors, and that aiming for this level would yield an appropriate phrasing for a sentence. Both the output of the system and our prelimi- nary findings, which show that discourse factors influence just a small part of the phrasings that follow a verb, indicate that this approach is feasible. The analysis that we arrived at takes G&G and, to some extent, Selkirk (1984) as its starting point. Hence we are assuming that there is no necessary match between syntac- tic structure and prosodic phrasing. Prosody rules refer to syntactic structure, but they are not obliged to preserve it; independent principles of prosodic well-formedness, in par- ticular length calculations, may create entirely different structures that appear at odds with the syntax. Here we shall describe the main features of our analysis and then go on to a description of the implementation. Our prosody rules are intended to account for two as- pect,; of phrasing: boundary location and boundary
enter on the location and salience rules, and we will mention the third rule class only in passing. 2.2.1 BOUNDARY LOCATION RULES The location rules identify possible boundary sites by first deriving phonological words from the lexical items in a parse tree, and then grouping the phonological words into larger phonological phrases. The boundaries that separate phonological phrases are the candidates for prosodic phrase boundaries, ince the prosodic phrases of speech consist of one or more phonological phrases. Our rules for phonological word formation are adopted, for the most part, from G&G, Grosjean and Gee (1987), and the account of monosyllabic destressing in Selkirk (1984). Thus in our analysis, rules of phonological word formation apply to the non-null terminal nodes in a syntax tree. If the terminal is a content word, i.e. noun, verb, adjective, or adverb, then this terminal may have the status of a phonological word on its own. Otherwise the word combines with one or more orthographically distinct words to form a single phonological word that has no internal word or phrase boundaries. This is accomplished by adjoin- ing a word to its left or right neighbor depending on its lexical category and it
ss only in passing. 2.2.1 BOUNDARY LOCATION RULES The location rules identify possible boundary sites by first deriving phonological words from the lexical items in a parse tree, and then grouping the phonological words into larger phonological phrases. The boundaries that separate phonological phrases are the candidates for prosodic phrase boundaries, ince the prosodic phrases of speech consist of one or more phonological phrases. Our rules for phonological word formation are adopted, for the most part, from G&G, Grosjean and Gee (1987), and the account of monosyllabic destressing in Selkirk (1984). Thus in our analysis, rules of phonological word formation apply to the non-null terminal nodes in a syntax tree. If the terminal is a content word, i.e. noun, verb, adjective, or adverb, then this terminal may have the status of a phonological word on its own. Otherwise the word combines with one or more orthographically distinct words to form a single phonological word that has no internal word or phrase boundaries. This is accomplished by adjoin- ing a word to its left or right neighbor depending on its lexical category and its position in the tree. Function words, e.g. auxiliary verbs, a
ee), f i l led + in is a phonological word. Hence the boundary will follow the preposition. We+saw s V NP V pp Adj N I a+sudden light Figure 1 Phonological Word Formation. among+the+lrees 20. a. Holmes waited I in + the + dimly lit room. b . . . . and filled + in I a few of the gaps. 6 Rules of phonological phrase formation now build the next level of prosodic constituents. 7 Each phonological phrase consists of a syntactic head and the material that intervenes between it and a preceding head (usually, the pre-head modifiers, e.g. pre-nominal adjectives, pre-verbal adverbs). Following Selkirk (1984), we have limited the eligible head categories to noun, verb, adjective, and adverb (although adjectives and adverbs do not count if they directly precede and modify another head). Examples 21 a-b illustrate the results of phonological phrase formation. In each case, the phonological phrase is created by a left-to- right process that collects material up to and including the head of a syntactic onstituent. Every phonological phrase boundary thus marks a syntactic head as well as the site of a possible prosodic boundary in speech. (The sequences with + are words formed by adjunction; I stands f
e prosodic verb phrases; length rules, which apply to the material on the right of a prosodic verb phrase; and final bundling, which collects phrases built up by the previous rules into a binary tree (see Figure 3). Location and salience rules are both subject o a left corner constraint on their application. In the following section, we discuss how the rules work in an experimental text-to-speech system. 3 AN EXPERIMENTAL TEXT-TO-SPEECH SYSTEM We have built an experimental text-to-speech system that uses our analysis of prosody to generate phrase boundaries for the Olive-Liberman synthesizer (Olive and Liberman 1985). Two concerns motivated our implementation. First, we hoped the system would provide us with a research tool for testing our ideas about syntax and phrasing against a large unrestricted collection of sentences. Second, we wished to investigate how well our approach would work for deter- mining prosodic phrasing in a text-to-speech synthesizer. Existing text-to-speech systems perform well on word pro- nunciation and short sentences, 12but when it comes to long sentences and paragraphs, ynthetic speech tends to be difficult to listen to and understand. Many investigators (e.g. Allen 1976; Elowi
nd Liberman 1985). Two concerns motivated our implementation. First, we hoped the system would provide us with a research tool for testing our ideas about syntax and phrasing against a large unrestricted collection of sentences. Second, we wished to investigate how well our approach would work for deter- mining prosodic phrasing in a text-to-speech synthesizer. Existing text-to-speech systems perform well on word pro- nunciation and short sentences, 12but when it comes to long sentences and paragraphs, ynthetic speech tends to be difficult to listen to and understand. Many investigators (e.g. Allen 1976; Elowitz et al 1976; Luce et al 1983; Cahn 1988) have suggested that the poor prosody of syn- thetic speech, in comparison with natural speech, is the primary factor leading to difficulties in the comprehension of fluent synthetic speech. And while researchers in text-to- speech synthesis have adopted a variety of approaches to prosodic phrase generation--from the simple punctuation- based rules and function word listings of existing commer- cial systems to the sophisticated prosodic heuristics de- scribed in Emorine and Martin (1988) and O'Shaughnessy (1989)---the generation ofappropriate pr
motivated our implementation. First, we hoped the system would provide us with a research tool for testing our ideas about syntax and phrasing against a large unrestricted collection of sentences. Second, we wished to investigate how well our approach would work for deter- mining prosodic phrasing in a text-to-speech synthesizer. Existing text-to-speech systems perform well on word pro- nunciation and short sentences, 12but when it comes to long sentences and paragraphs, ynthetic speech tends to be difficult to listen to and understand. Many investigators (e.g. Allen 1976; Elowitz et al 1976; Luce et al 1983; Cahn 1988) have suggested that the poor prosody of syn- thetic speech, in comparison with natural speech, is the primary factor leading to difficulties in the comprehension of fluent synthetic speech. And while researchers in text-to- speech synthesis have adopted a variety of approaches to prosodic phrase generation--from the simple punctuation- based rules and function word listings of existing commer- cial systems to the sophisticated prosodic heuristics de- scribed in Emorine and Martin (1988) and O'Shaughnessy (1989)---the generation ofappropriate prosodic phrasing in unres~tricted xt h
lementation. First, we hoped the system would provide us with a research tool for testing our ideas about syntax and phrasing against a large unrestricted collection of sentences. Second, we wished to investigate how well our approach would work for deter- mining prosodic phrasing in a text-to-speech synthesizer. Existing text-to-speech systems perform well on word pro- nunciation and short sentences, 12but when it comes to long sentences and paragraphs, ynthetic speech tends to be difficult to listen to and understand. Many investigators (e.g. Allen 1976; Elowitz et al 1976; Luce et al 1983; Cahn 1988) have suggested that the poor prosody of syn- thetic speech, in comparison with natural speech, is the primary factor leading to difficulties in the comprehension of fluent synthetic speech. And while researchers in text-to- speech synthesis have adopted a variety of approaches to prosodic phrase generation--from the simple punctuation- based rules and function word listings of existing commer- cial systems to the sophisticated prosodic heuristics de- scribed in Emorine and Martin (1988) and O'Shaughnessy (1989)---the generation ofappropriate prosodic phrasing in unres~tricted xt has remained 
nds to be difficult to listen to and understand. Many investigators (e.g. Allen 1976; Elowitz et al 1976; Luce et al 1983; Cahn 1988) have suggested that the poor prosody of syn- thetic speech, in comparison with natural speech, is the primary factor leading to difficulties in the comprehension of fluent synthetic speech. And while researchers in text-to- speech synthesis have adopted a variety of approaches to prosodic phrase generation--from the simple punctuation- based rules and function word listings of existing commer- cial systems to the sophisticated prosodic heuristics de- scribed in Emorine and Martin (1988) and O'Shaughnessy (1989)---the generation ofappropriate prosodic phrasing in unres~tricted xt has remained a problem. As we will show, our results so far indicate that our experimental system, which assigns a discourse neutral prosoclic phrasing on the level of sentences, provides a significant improvement i the quality of synthesized speech. We believe that one reason for the improvement has to do with the increased pitch range that our system uses. Text- to-speech systems that lack sentence-level phrasing must take a conservative approach to pitch settings in order to avoid misleading and i
to and understand. Many investigators (e.g. Allen 1976; Elowitz et al 1976; Luce et al 1983; Cahn 1988) have suggested that the poor prosody of syn- thetic speech, in comparison with natural speech, is the primary factor leading to difficulties in the comprehension of fluent synthetic speech. And while researchers in text-to- speech synthesis have adopted a variety of approaches to prosodic phrase generation--from the simple punctuation- based rules and function word listings of existing commer- cial systems to the sophisticated prosodic heuristics de- scribed in Emorine and Martin (1988) and O'Shaughnessy (1989)---the generation ofappropriate prosodic phrasing in unres~tricted xt has remained a problem. As we will show, our results so far indicate that our experimental system, which assigns a discourse neutral prosoclic phrasing on the level of sentences, provides a significant improvement i the quality of synthesized speech. We believe that one reason for the improvement has to do with the increased pitch range that our system uses. Text- to-speech systems that lack sentence-level phrasing must take a conservative approach to pitch settings in order to avoid misleading and inappropriate pitch modula
NP for DET N I London several days He told me last night he was coming to London for several days. Figure 7 Syntactic Input to Phrasing Rules. 164 Compultational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 J. Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English branches that are unnecessary for prosodic phrase determi- nation. 3.2 PROSODIC PHRASE REPRESENTATION Following G&G, we require that the prosody rules build a binary tree whose terminals are phonological words and whose node labels are indices that mark boundary salience. An alternative r presentation based on Liberman and Prince (1977) is presented in Selkirk (1984), which contends that prosody, including prosodic phrasing, is more properly represented asa grid instead of a tree. Although a grid may be more descriptively suitable for some aspects of prosody (for example, Sproat and Liberman (1987) use the grid representation for their implementation f stress assign- ment in compound nominals), we are not aware of any evidence for or against a grid representation f discourse- neutral phrasing. Figure 8 shows the phonological phrase tree that is built from the syntactic structure of Figure 7. The rules for building this tree 
night he was coming to London for several days. Figure 7 Syntactic Input to Phrasing Rules. 164 Compultational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 J. Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English branches that are unnecessary for prosodic phrase determi- nation. 3.2 PROSODIC PHRASE REPRESENTATION Following G&G, we require that the prosody rules build a binary tree whose terminals are phonological words and whose node labels are indices that mark boundary salience. An alternative r presentation based on Liberman and Prince (1977) is presented in Selkirk (1984), which contends that prosody, including prosodic phrasing, is more properly represented asa grid instead of a tree. Although a grid may be more descriptively suitable for some aspects of prosody (for example, Sproat and Liberman (1987) use the grid representation for their implementation f stress assign- ment in compound nominals), we are not aware of any evidence for or against a grid representation f discourse- neutral phrasing. Figure 8 shows the phonological phrase tree that is built from the syntactic structure of Figure 7. The rules for building this tree apply from left to right, follo
 Phrasing in English branches that are unnecessary for prosodic phrase determi- nation. 3.2 PROSODIC PHRASE REPRESENTATION Following G&G, we require that the prosody rules build a binary tree whose terminals are phonological words and whose node labels are indices that mark boundary salience. An alternative r presentation based on Liberman and Prince (1977) is presented in Selkirk (1984), which contends that prosody, including prosodic phrasing, is more properly represented asa grid instead of a tree. Although a grid may be more descriptively suitable for some aspects of prosody (for example, Sproat and Liberman (1987) use the grid representation for their implementation f stress assign- ment in compound nominals), we are not aware of any evidence for or against a grid representation f discourse- neutral phrasing. Figure 8 shows the phonological phrase tree that is built from the syntactic structure of Figure 7. The rules for building this tree apply from left to right, following the analysis we described in the preceding section. Figures 9-11 show the prosodic phrase derivation. Numbered nodes refer to salience values, with higher numbers indicating greater salience. The index is assigned according to phon
y two speakers, marked the prosodic phrase boundaries as we had done with the Holmes and Everest data, and ran the sentences through our pro- sodic phrase system for comparison with the human speak- ers' phrasing. Phrasing in the speech of the two human speakers was almost identical; where the speakers failed to match, we depended on the speaker with the more detailed phrasing to obtain a single transcript for comparison. The sentences with the phrase markings produced by the system (S) and by the human speakers (H) are given in Appendix A. In addition, we used the sentences of Grosjean et al (1979) to test our system; these were the same sentences used by G&G. They were produced by six subjects peak- ing each sentence at five different speaking rates. We chose these data both because they form an established, though small, ,corpus and because their phrase markings, derived by oscillographic tracings of pause duration, provide a check: against he possibility of error in human judgments of pause location and salience. A comparison of these data with the output of our system is given in Appendix B. In comparing human and synthetic prosodic phrasing with an eye on synthetic phrasings that a
