plification f the operation of the program. Finally, we discuss features of RE that make it possible to handle the complex and sometimes imprecise representations of lexical items, and speculate on possible directions for future research. 1. Introduction The essential step in historical reconstruction is the arrangement of related words in different languages into sets of cognates and the specification of the regular phono- logical correspondences that support that arrangement; he well-known means for carrying out this arrangement and specification is the comparative method (see, for example, Meillet 1966; Hoenigswald 1950, 1960; Watkins 1989; Baldi 1990). Words that are not demonstrably related (via regular sound change) are explained by reference to other diachronic processes that are beyond the scope of the comparative method and of this paper. Sound change is first to be explained as a rule-governed process and other explanations (which invoke more sporadic and less predictable processes) * Department of Linguistics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720. E-mail: jblowe@garnet.berkeley.edu t LACITO-CNRS, 44 rue de l'Amiral-Mouchez, 75014 Paris, France. E-mail: mazaudon@LACITO.msh-pa
the operation of the program. Finally, we discuss features of RE that make it possible to handle the complex and sometimes imprecise representations of lexical items, and speculate on possible directions for future research. 1. Introduction The essential step in historical reconstruction is the arrangement of related words in different languages into sets of cognates and the specification of the regular phono- logical correspondences that support that arrangement; he well-known means for carrying out this arrangement and specification is the comparative method (see, for example, Meillet 1966; Hoenigswald 1950, 1960; Watkins 1989; Baldi 1990). Words that are not demonstrably related (via regular sound change) are explained by reference to other diachronic processes that are beyond the scope of the comparative method and of this paper. Sound change is first to be explained as a rule-governed process and other explanations (which invoke more sporadic and less predictable processes) * Department of Linguistics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720. E-mail: jblowe@garnet.berkeley.edu t LACITO-CNRS, 44 rue de l'Amiral-Mouchez, 75014 Paris, France. E-mail: mazaudon@LACITO.msh-paris.fr (~) 1994 As
gram. Finally, we discuss features of RE that make it possible to handle the complex and sometimes imprecise representations of lexical items, and speculate on possible directions for future research. 1. Introduction The essential step in historical reconstruction is the arrangement of related words in different languages into sets of cognates and the specification of the regular phono- logical correspondences that support that arrangement; he well-known means for carrying out this arrangement and specification is the comparative method (see, for example, Meillet 1966; Hoenigswald 1950, 1960; Watkins 1989; Baldi 1990). Words that are not demonstrably related (via regular sound change) are explained by reference to other diachronic processes that are beyond the scope of the comparative method and of this paper. Sound change is first to be explained as a rule-governed process and other explanations (which invoke more sporadic and less predictable processes) * Department of Linguistics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720. E-mail: jblowe@garnet.berkeley.edu t LACITO-CNRS, 44 rue de l'Amiral-Mouchez, 75014 Paris, France. E-mail: mazaudon@LACITO.msh-paris.fr (~) 1994 Association for Comput
 we discuss features of RE that make it possible to handle the complex and sometimes imprecise representations of lexical items, and speculate on possible directions for future research. 1. Introduction The essential step in historical reconstruction is the arrangement of related words in different languages into sets of cognates and the specification of the regular phono- logical correspondences that support that arrangement; he well-known means for carrying out this arrangement and specification is the comparative method (see, for example, Meillet 1966; Hoenigswald 1950, 1960; Watkins 1989; Baldi 1990). Words that are not demonstrably related (via regular sound change) are explained by reference to other diachronic processes that are beyond the scope of the comparative method and of this paper. Sound change is first to be explained as a rule-governed process and other explanations (which invoke more sporadic and less predictable processes) * Department of Linguistics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720. E-mail: jblowe@garnet.berkeley.edu t LACITO-CNRS, 44 rue de l'Amiral-Mouchez, 75014 Paris, France. E-mail: mazaudon@LACITO.msh-paris.fr (~) 1994 Association for Computational Lingu
licited through relaxed constraints (word families, allofams, 1 etc.) Sociolinguistic explanation. Domain of lexical diffusion and other sporadic processes. Borrowings, analogized forms, hypercorrections, prestige pronunciations, etc. The &quot;mystery pile&quot;: counterexamples and other troublesome words. Figure 1 The &quot;sieve&quot; of explanation i historical linguistics. offered when it is clear that nonphonological forces are at work, as illustrated in Figure 1. There will always be a number of lexical items for which no scientific explanation can be advanced: not all words are entitled to an etymology (Meillet 1966). This paper discusses problems and solutions associated with automating research into diachronic processes acting in (B) in Figure 1 above. Our solutions are imple- mented in a program we call the Reconstruction E gine, hereinafter RE (earlier versions are described in Lowe and Mazaudon \[1989\] and Mazaudon and Lowe \[1991\]). 2 RE is a prototype computational tool that automates a crucial portion of the comparative 1 The term 'allofamy,' due to Matisoff (1978), refers to relationship 'among the various individual members of the same word-family.' English royal and regal, borrowed from Frenc
l always be a number of lexical items for which no scientific explanation can be advanced: not all words are entitled to an etymology (Meillet 1966). This paper discusses problems and solutions associated with automating research into diachronic processes acting in (B) in Figure 1 above. Our solutions are imple- mented in a program we call the Reconstruction E gine, hereinafter RE (earlier versions are described in Lowe and Mazaudon \[1989\] and Mazaudon and Lowe \[1991\]). 2 RE is a prototype computational tool that automates a crucial portion of the comparative 1 The term 'allofamy,' due to Matisoff (1978), refers to relationship 'among the various individual members of the same word-family.' English royal and regal, borrowed from French and Latin, respectively, are both ultimately traceable to the same PIE root *reg-, and so are co-allofams in Modern English (Matisoff 1978:16-18, Matisoff 1992:160). A word family might contain both native words and words borrowed from related languages; the borrowings may be recent or ancient. 2 RE is written in SPITBOL, a dialect of SNOBOL4. The current implementation is specific to 80386 and higher microcomputers running MS-DOS. A C++ version is planned. 382
utions are imple- mented in a program we call the Reconstruction E gine, hereinafter RE (earlier versions are described in Lowe and Mazaudon \[1989\] and Mazaudon and Lowe \[1991\]). 2 RE is a prototype computational tool that automates a crucial portion of the comparative 1 The term 'allofamy,' due to Matisoff (1978), refers to relationship 'among the various individual members of the same word-family.' English royal and regal, borrowed from French and Latin, respectively, are both ultimately traceable to the same PIE root *reg-, and so are co-allofams in Modern English (Matisoff 1978:16-18, Matisoff 1992:160). A word family might contain both native words and words borrowed from related languages; the borrowings may be recent or ancient. 2 RE is written in SPITBOL, a dialect of SNOBOL4. The current implementation is specific to 80386 and higher microcomputers running MS-DOS. A C++ version is planned. 382 Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction Engine method: the process of creating cognate sets and proposing reconstructions on the basis of observed correspondences between modern languages. It treats those words of the lexicon that fall into pile C in Figure 1 above (and to a lesser extent hose t
constituent phonological elements of etyma and their modern reflexes are called sound laws and are usually written in the form of diachronic phonological rules; for example, PIE *p > Eng l i sh / f / . / f / i s said to be the outcome of PIE *p in English. Languages that share a common ancestor are said to be the daughters of that ancestor. The data on which our study and these examples are based and that are used in exemplifying the operation of the program are taken from the Tamang group of the Bodic division of the Tibeto-Burman branch of the Sino-Tibetan family in Shafer's classification (Shafer 1955), spoken in Nepal (Mazaudon 1978, 1988). The reconstructed ancestor, Proto Tamang-Gurung-Thakali-Manang, is abbreviated *TGTM. Four modern tones (numbered 1to 4) are recognized in the modern languages and two proto-tone categories (labelled A and B) are reconstructed. The tones of both reconstructed and daughter forms are transcribed before the syllable, e.g. Abap. The eight dialects used are discussed in detail by Mazaudon (1978). The dialects and their abbreviations are (as cited in columns 5 to 12 of the Table of Correspondences in Figure 9a): Risiangku (ris), Sahu (sahu), Taglung (tag), Tu
ts of etyma and their modern reflexes are called sound laws and are usually written in the form of diachronic phonological rules; for example, PIE *p > Eng l i sh / f / . / f / i s said to be the outcome of PIE *p in English. Languages that share a common ancestor are said to be the daughters of that ancestor. The data on which our study and these examples are based and that are used in exemplifying the operation of the program are taken from the Tamang group of the Bodic division of the Tibeto-Burman branch of the Sino-Tibetan family in Shafer's classification (Shafer 1955), spoken in Nepal (Mazaudon 1978, 1988). The reconstructed ancestor, Proto Tamang-Gurung-Thakali-Manang, is abbreviated *TGTM. Four modern tones (numbered 1to 4) are recognized in the modern languages and two proto-tone categories (labelled A and B) are reconstructed. The tones of both reconstructed and daughter forms are transcribed before the syllable, e.g. Abap. The eight dialects used are discussed in detail by Mazaudon (1978). The dialects and their abbreviations are (as cited in columns 5 to 12 of the Table of Correspondences in Figure 9a): Risiangku (ris), Sahu (sahu), Taglung (tag), Tukche (tuk), Marpha (mar), Syang 
3 is a representation f the contents of the computer screen after the user has entered three modern words (1). The program has generated the reconstructions from which these forms might derive (2). The list of numbers (called the analysis) following the reconstruction refers to the row numbers in the table of correspondences used by 3 Upstream in the sense of time. We had originally described the temporal directions of the program as backward and forward. The opposit ion of upstream and downstream, suggested to us by John Hewson, one of the developers of the first &quot;Electronic Neogrammarian,&quot; (Hewson 1973) is much more intuitive. 385 Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3 ? 3 modem forms supplied by the user (9 computer- proposed cognate sets ~ . Q Possible reconstructions for the 3 forms are generated... -I Wile\] \[Windows\] \[Query\] [Setup/Status\] \[RE\] - Modem Forms - * Reflexes 1. ris 2. sahu 3. tag 4. tuk 5. mar Spo 6. syang Spo 7. gha 8. pra SPe --Reconstructions mar ~po *Abap/3.138.26 *Abo:/3.138.61 syang ?po *Abap/3.138.26 *Ab0:/3.138.61 pra 3pe *Abap/3.138.26 Proposed Cognate Sets 1..aba.p/3.138.26 (mar S'po; syang Spo; pra 3pe) Z. Abo:/3.138.61 (aar '~o; syang Spo) Figure 3
ymon entered by the user (1) produced reflexes (2) through two different syllabic analyses (numbered 1. and 2. in the &quot;Reflexes of . . .&quot; window): Abap as initial /b - / plus vowel / -a - / plus final / -p / , and as initial /b - / followed by rhyme/ -ap / . The algorithms used in this process are described in Section 4.2. 3. Previous Research in Computational Historical Linguistics In order to provide some context for a discussion of our efforts, we first present a brief discussion of the computational pproaches to the study of sound change and review some of the software developed (see also Hewson 1989). Applications of computers to problems in historical inguistics fall into two dis- tinct categories: those based on numerical techniques, usually relying on methods of statistical inference; and those based on combinatorial techniques, usually implement- ing some type of rule-driven apparatus specifying the possible diachronic development 4 In fact, the situation is sl ightly more complicated than is shown here: there are two other possible reconstructions and another possible cognate set that are not shown because of space considerations. This example is discussed in more detail in Section 5
&quot;downstream&quot; computation). of language forms. The major features of a few of these programs are reviewed briefly below. The programs discussed by no means exhaust the field; the criteria for selecting them is that they have been described in the literature sufficiently for an evaluation, and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors. Indeed, the literature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literature on the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh's earlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950). On the other hand, only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language ch
lecting them is that they have been described in the literature sufficiently for an evaluation, and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors. Indeed, the literature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literature on the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh's earlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950). On the other hand, only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change. The COMPASS module of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf. Wimbish 1989). It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degree of sim
is that they have been described in the literature sufficiently for an evaluation, and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors. Indeed, the literature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literature on the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh's earlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950). On the other hand, only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change. The COMPASS module of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf. Wimbish 1989). It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degree of similarity betwee
ave been described in the literature sufficiently for an evaluation, and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors. Indeed, the literature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literature on the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh's earlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950). On the other hand, only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change. The COMPASS module of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf. Wimbish 1989). It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degree of similarity between corresponding phonem
the literature sufficiently for an evaluation, and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors. Indeed, the literature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literature on the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh's earlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950). On the other hand, only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change. The COMPASS module of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf. Wimbish 1989). It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degree of similarity between corresponding phonemes in differe
e sufficiently for an evaluation, and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors. Indeed, the literature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literature on the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh's earlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950). On the other hand, only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change. The COMPASS module of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf. Wimbish 1989). It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degree of similarity between corresponding phonemes in different languages
-application type (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982; Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976). In general these programs eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation. Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets that completely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages i a daunting task. To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change. The COMPASS module of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf. Wimbish 1989). It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degree of similarity between corresponding phonemes in different languages. Also to this class belong applications that measure genetic affiliation as a function of the number of shared words in a selected vocabulary set. Any method that depends on counting &quot;shared words,&quot; we note, assumes the existence and prior application of a means of determining which forms are cognate; and any such estimates of the relatedness of languages are only as good as the metric that determines which ones are cognate. 387 Computational Lingu
 depends on counting &quot;shared words,&quot; we note, assumes the existence and prior application of a means of determining which forms are cognate; and any such estimates of the relatedness of languages are only as good as the metric that determines which ones are cognate. 387 Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3 Language C1 C2 C3 C4 Reflex Gloss Fox p lak ~ m poohke~amwa 'he cuts it open' Cree p sk s m pooskosam 'he cuts it open' Menomini . . . . Ojibwa p ~k ~ n pa~ko~aan 'he cuts it down' Ojibwa p kk ~ n pakkwee~aan 'he slices off a part' Figure 5 Potential Proto-Algonkian cognates (after Hewson 1974:193-194). To the second class belong programs that model sound change as sets of rules applied to derive later forms from earlier forms, and RE is a member of this class. Examples of programs of this sort are PHONO, being applied to Latin-to-Spanish data (and described below); VARBRUL (by Susan Pintzuk) used to analyze Old English, and two programs used to analyze Romance languages: Iberochange, based on a rule- processing subsystem called BETA, used for lbero-Romance languages (Eastlack 1977) and one unnamed (Burton-Hunter 1976). 3.1 Hewson's Proto-Algonkian Experiment The &quot;proto-projection&quot;
' Ojibwa p kk ~ n pakkwee~aan 'he slices off a part' Figure 5 Potential Proto-Algonkian cognates (after Hewson 1974:193-194). To the second class belong programs that model sound change as sets of rules applied to derive later forms from earlier forms, and RE is a member of this class. Examples of programs of this sort are PHONO, being applied to Latin-to-Spanish data (and described below); VARBRUL (by Susan Pintzuk) used to analyze Old English, and two programs used to analyze Romance languages: Iberochange, based on a rule- processing subsystem called BETA, used for lbero-Romance languages (Eastlack 1977) and one unnamed (Burton-Hunter 1976). 3.1 Hewson's Proto-Algonkian Experiment The &quot;proto-projection&quot; techniques used by RE were implemented earlier by John Hewson and others at the Memorial University of Newfoundland (Hewson 1973, 1974). 5 The strategy is transparent; as Hewson notes, he and his team decided to &quot;follow the basic logic used by the linguist in the comparative method&quot; (Hewson 1974:193). The results of this research ave recently been published in the form of an etymological dictionary of Proto-Algonkian (Hewson 1993). The program as first envisioned was to operate on &quot;consonant o
e slices off a part' Figure 5 Potential Proto-Algonkian cognates (after Hewson 1974:193-194). To the second class belong programs that model sound change as sets of rules applied to derive later forms from earlier forms, and RE is a member of this class. Examples of programs of this sort are PHONO, being applied to Latin-to-Spanish data (and described below); VARBRUL (by Susan Pintzuk) used to analyze Old English, and two programs used to analyze Romance languages: Iberochange, based on a rule- processing subsystem called BETA, used for lbero-Romance languages (Eastlack 1977) and one unnamed (Burton-Hunter 1976). 3.1 Hewson's Proto-Algonkian Experiment The &quot;proto-projection&quot; techniques used by RE were implemented earlier by John Hewson and others at the Memorial University of Newfoundland (Hewson 1973, 1974). 5 The strategy is transparent; as Hewson notes, he and his team decided to &quot;follow the basic logic used by the linguist in the comparative method&quot; (Hewson 1974:193). The results of this research ave recently been published in the form of an etymological dictionary of Proto-Algonkian (Hewson 1993). The program as first envisioned was to operate on &quot;consonant only&quot; transcriptions of polysyllabic m
from earlier forms, and RE is a member of this class. Examples of programs of this sort are PHONO, being applied to Latin-to-Spanish data (and described below); VARBRUL (by Susan Pintzuk) used to analyze Old English, and two programs used to analyze Romance languages: Iberochange, based on a rule- processing subsystem called BETA, used for lbero-Romance languages (Eastlack 1977) and one unnamed (Burton-Hunter 1976). 3.1 Hewson's Proto-Algonkian Experiment The &quot;proto-projection&quot; techniques used by RE were implemented earlier by John Hewson and others at the Memorial University of Newfoundland (Hewson 1973, 1974). 5 The strategy is transparent; as Hewson notes, he and his team decided to &quot;follow the basic logic used by the linguist in the comparative method&quot; (Hewson 1974:193). The results of this research ave recently been published in the form of an etymological dictionary of Proto-Algonkian (Hewson 1993). The program as first envisioned was to operate on &quot;consonant only&quot; transcriptions of polysyllabic morphemes from four Amerindian languages. The program would take a modern form, &quot;project it backwards&quot; into one or more proto-projections, then project these proto-projections i to the next daug
sing subsystem called BETA, used for lbero-Romance languages (Eastlack 1977) and one unnamed (Burton-Hunter 1976). 3.1 Hewson's Proto-Algonkian Experiment The &quot;proto-projection&quot; techniques used by RE were implemented earlier by John Hewson and others at the Memorial University of Newfoundland (Hewson 1973, 1974). 5 The strategy is transparent; as Hewson notes, he and his team decided to &quot;follow the basic logic used by the linguist in the comparative method&quot; (Hewson 1974:193). The results of this research ave recently been published in the form of an etymological dictionary of Proto-Algonkian (Hewson 1993). The program as first envisioned was to operate on &quot;consonant only&quot; transcriptions of polysyllabic morphemes from four Amerindian languages. The program would take a modern form, &quot;project it backwards&quot; into one or more proto-projections, then project these proto-projections i to the next daughter language, deriving the expected regular reflexes. The lexicon for this language would be checked for these predicted reflexes; if found, the program would repeat he projection process, zig-zagging back and forth in time until all reflexes were found. For example, given Fox/poohke~amwa/he cuts it open
The lexicon for this language would be checked for these predicted reflexes; if found, the program would repeat he projection process, zig-zagging back and forth in time until all reflexes were found. For example, given Fox/poohke~amwa/he cuts it open, the program would match the correct Cree form, as indicated in Figure 5. There were problems with this approach. In cases where no reflex could be found (as in Figure 5, where no Menomini cognates for this form existed in the database), the process would grind to a halt. Recognizing that &quot;the end result of such a programme would be almost nil&quot; (Hewson 1973:266), the team developed another approach in which the program generated all possible proto-projections for the 3,403 modern forms. These 74,049 reconstructions were sorted together, and 'only those that showed identi- cal proto-projections i another language' (some 1,305 items) were retained for further examination. At this point Hewson claimed that he and his colleagues were then able to quickly identify some 250 new cognate sets (Hewson 1974:195). The vowels were added back into the forms, and from this a final list of cognate sets was created. A cognate set from this file, consisting of a
 for this form existed in the database), the process would grind to a halt. Recognizing that &quot;the end result of such a programme would be almost nil&quot; (Hewson 1973:266), the team developed another approach in which the program generated all possible proto-projections for the 3,403 modern forms. These 74,049 reconstructions were sorted together, and 'only those that showed identi- cal proto-projections i another language' (some 1,305 items) were retained for further examination. At this point Hewson claimed that he and his colleagues were then able to quickly identify some 250 new cognate sets (Hewson 1974:195). The vowels were added back into the forms, and from this a final list of cognate sets was created. A cognate set from this file, consisting of a reconstruction a d two supporting forms, is reproduced below (Figure 6). 5 The authors of RE developed this technique independently and later discovered this methodologically similar computer p oject on Proto-Algonkian. 388 Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine Language Form Gloss Protomorpheme * (ProtoAlg.) PEQTAAXKWIHCINWA BUMP (*-AAXKW) M (Menomini) P3QTAAHKIHSEN HE BUMPS INTO A TREE OR SOLID ... O (Ojibwa) PATTAKKOCCIN BUMP/KNOCK AGAI
uists to compare and analyze word lists from different languages and to perform phonostatistic analysis. To do so, the linguist first enters &quot;survey data&quot; into the program; reflexes are arranged together by gloss, as illustrated in the reproduction in Figure 7. In addition to the a priori semantic grouping of reflexes by gloss, the linguist must also re-transcribe the data in such a way that each constituent of a reflex is a single character, that is, &quot;no digraphs are allowed. Single unique characters must be used to represent what might normally be represented by digraphs.., e.g. N for ng.&quot; (Wimbish 1989:43). The program also requires that part of the diachronic analysis be carried out before entering the data into the computer in order to incorporate that analysis into the data. For example, when the linguist hypothesizes that &quot;a process of sound change has caused aphone to be lost (or inserted), a space must be inserted to hold its place in the forms in which it has been deleted (or not been inserted)&quot; (Wimbish 1989:43). That is, the zero constituent must be represented in the data itself. The program also contains a &quot;provision for metathesis . . . . Enter the symbols > n (where n is a one-
d word forms&quot; for FATHER in WORDSURV (Wimbish 1989:43). 389 Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3 number) after a word to inform WORDSURV that metathesis has occurred with the nth character and the one to its right&quot; (Wimbish 1989:43). An example of this may be seen in column 3 of Figure 7. To represent tone, the author notes that &quot;there are at least wo solutions. The first is to use a number for each tone (for example lma3na). The second solution is to use one of the vowel characters with an accent . . . . The two methods will produce different results&quot; when the analysis is performed (Wimbish 1989:44). While the last statement may surprise some strict empiricists (after all, the same data should give the same results under an identical analysis), it should come as no surprise to lin- guists who recognize that the selection of unit size, the type of constituency, and other problems of representation may have a dramatic effect on conclusions. RE is distin- guished from this program in that (i) no a priori grouping of forms by gloss is required (a step that is fraught with methodological problems inasmuch as it requires the lin- guist to decide a priori which forms might be related), (ii)
o quantify, so any distance mea- sures are themselves likely to be unreliable. RE computes no such statistics, though some tools (described below) that might be used in subgrouping do exist. 3.3 DOC: Chinese Dialect Dictionary on Computer DOC is one of the earliest projects to attempt a comprehensive tr atment of the lexicons of a group of related languages. DOG was developed &quot;for certain problems \[in which\] the linguist finds it necessary to organize large amounts of data, or to perform rather involved logical tasks--such as checking out a body of rules with intricate ordering relations.&quot; (Wang 1970:57). A sample dialect record (in one of the original formats) is illustrated in Figure 8. Note that as in the case of WORDSURV, the data must be pre- segmented according to a universal phonotactic description (in this case the Chinese syllable canon) that the program is built to handle. The one-byte-one-constituent re- striction does not exist, though the (maximum) size of constituents is fixed with the data structure. At least four versions of this database and associated software were produced (Cheng 1993:13). Originally processed as a punched-card file on a LINC-8, the program underwent se
ogical tasks--such as checking out a body of rules with intricate ordering relations.&quot; (Wang 1970:57). A sample dialect record (in one of the original formats) is illustrated in Figure 8. Note that as in the case of WORDSURV, the data must be pre- segmented according to a universal phonotactic description (in this case the Chinese syllable canon) that the program is built to handle. The one-byte-one-constituent re- striction does not exist, though the (maximum) size of constituents is fixed with the data structure. At least four versions of this database and associated software were produced (Cheng 1993:13). Originally processed as a punched-card file on a LINC-8, the program underwent several metamorphoses. An intelligent front-end was developed in Clipper (a microcomputer-based database management system) that allows the user to perform faceted queries (i.e. multiple keyterm searches) against he database. The database is available as a text file (slightly over one megabyte) containing forms in 17 dialects for some 2,961 Chinese characters (Cheng 1993:12). DOG has no &quot;active&quot; component: it is a database of phonologically analyzed lexemes organized for effective retrieval. 3.4 Phono: A Progr
se constraints, however, only one combination is licensed: 1.104.31, because: (i) only the tone correspondence for row 1 applies since it specifies the outcome of prototone A for voiceless initials; (ii) only outcomes of row 104 for *kr- are generated since this is the most specific rule that applies; and because (iii) row 186 is eliminated as a possibility for *-a in this case, since these outcomes only occur when *-a is followed by *-p. Some complications in the application of the rules should be noted here. The pro- gram does apply Panini's principle, also known as the Elsewhere Condition (Kiparsky 1973, 1982). Thus, of all the possible *kr- correspondences, only the most specific is 395 Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3 selected. For example, though the context in line 104 *-a is a substring (or subcontext) of line 105 *-at, only one or the other is selected for any particular segmentation of a protoform ending in *-at (i.e. 104 for *-a- + *-t vs. 105 for *-at). If the &quot;specificity&quot; of several applicable contexts is the same, all are used by the program in generating the forms. 7 Also, note that since the context is stated in terms of proto-elements, when computing backwards (up
d and those reconstructions that fail to have sufficient support are eliminated. The remaining reconstructions are retained. Third, each set is compared with each other set to get rid of those which are subsets of other sets (a type of &quot;set covering problem,&quot; discussed in Section 5.1 below). This is primarily a data reduction process, and not interesting algorithmically. We have therefore not provided pseudocode describing it. It is, however, NP-hard, and therefore takes a lot of time for a dataset of any size. 1? 10 For a discussion of set-covering and NP-complete problems, see, for example, Ralston and Reilly (1993), 938-941. 398 Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine ? ( C Modem 1 Forms F I . L Protoforms 1 Bet Creation and I / Co~l~tian i Table of Correspondences and Syllable Canon I &quot;Provisional&quot; Cognate Sets 1 ? Io,, on Eq~il~;nce \[ \] Figure 14 Input-output diagram ofRE's basic batch functions. /* STEP ONE: Backward projection of modern forms setup tables for the language data file to be processed get appropriate columns from TofC set language codes, etc. for output Initialize list of reconstructions end setup for each language_dictionary for each modern_form from language_dictionary /* i.e. f
mantic distance. In order to separate incompatible tymological sets, we devised an ad hoc sys- 12 The X that occurs in the Taglung form is a cover symbol meaning &quot;unspecified tone&quot;) and is used when the tone of the form is unknown. This allows RE to reconstruct the form under any of the tones. If this cover symbol were left out, RE would reconstruct this form without a prototone (permitted by the canon), and the form would fail to form a set with other forms that do have the tone specified. 13 It might be possible to apply the results of some recent research in the area, for example, Wordnet (Miller 1990), to part of the problem. Indeed, the &quot;semantic formulas&quot; developed for RE are similar structurally and conceptually to the &quot;synsets&quot; of Wordnet. Ultimately, any solution would have to be sensitive not only to synchronic relationships in a single language (like Wordnet) but also to semantic shifts (both universal and language-specific) and the possibility of several different glossing metalanguages (in this case both French and English are used). 406 Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine *Ab e/3.138.19. mar 3pe wife pra 3pic wife syang 3pe wife tuk 3pe wife *Ab e :/3.138.20. *Ab ? t/3.13
ally, the combinatorial complexity of the reconstruction process and the potentially large linguistic data sets that might be treated make the problems of performance and data reduction computationally challenging. There is much room for work here applying techniques already developed in other areas of computational linguistics. We have occasionally been asked why we have not developed software that would create tables of correspondences based on universal or at least subgroup-wide phono- logical principles of analysis and comparison. Such an algorithm has already been proposed by Martin Kay (Kay 1964). Our research as focused on evaluating existing hypotheses rather than the process of creating new ones. There is indeed much work that could be done here and we hope that the burgeoning interest in computational historical inguistics will lead to the investigation of this question. Finally, we recognize that for these algorithms to be useful to other researchers in historical linguistics they must ultimately be implemented as part of a larger software 415 Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3 suite providing conventional (and standardized) atabase management functions and other compu
