rences associated with this predicate. The inferences derived from &quot;Three hundred Irishmen migrated to Boston last year&quot; would be very different had the main verb been &quot;traveled,&quot; yet there are no differences between the selectional restrictions and syntactic realizations for the predicates migrate and travel. Subpredicates inherit all the thematic roles not listed in their definitions from their parent predicates. The number and nature of the thematic roles depend on the generic predicates and subpredicates, and not on some general criteria regardless of each predicate (Fillmore, 1968). See (Gomez, 1998) for a discussion. 3 The syntax of roles The syntax of roles in the predicates that will be defined below is given by the following grammar: S -> (ROLE L); ROLE -> agentIthemel.. L -> (SM) (SR) LI (SM) (SR) SM -> ONTOLOGICAL-CAT SMIONTOLOGICAL-CAT SM -> -ONTOLOGICAL-CAT SMI-ONTOLOGICAL-CAT SR -> SYNTACTIC-REL SRISYNTACTIC-REL SYNTACTIC-REL -> (prep PREP)IsubjI IobjIobj2Isubj-if-objIsubj-if-no-objI Iobj-if-obj2Ipredicate-complementI Icomplement-phraseIadjective-phrase PREP -> ANY-PREP PREPI ANY-PREP ONTOLOGICAL-CAT ->thingIphysical-thingI... ANY-PREP -> onlinl.... Each thematic role is followed
t. teach (wn-map (teachl) ) ( s-a ( communi cat e ) ) * train (wn-map (trainl train2) ) * indoctrinate (wn-map ( indoctr inat e 1) ) * lecture (wn-map (le cture 1) ) * educate (wn-map ( educat e 1) ) Space limitation impedes us to list the definitions for these predicates, but some of the difsubj refers to the subject of a sentence without expressing any context about the transitivity or intransitivity of the verb. 4 Verbs of Communication In this section, we explain the predicate communicate so that the algorithm may be followed by the reader. Other definitions of predicates may be found in (Gomez, 1998). ferences between teach and its superpredicate, communicate are as follows. The definition for the predicate teach is identical to that of communicate, except that the theme is not realized by the preposition &quot;of.&quot; Its subpredicates train, lecture, and educate do not realize syntactically the theme with an obj, and so on. Educate1 is not a subclass of teach in WordNet, but of polish, which in turn it is a subclass of better 2 and this of change1. We have classified educate1 as a subpredicate of teach because it shares more thematic roles and inferences with this predicate than with any other.
