s and show that the model’s ranking of meanings correlates reliably with human intuitions: meanings that are found highly probable by the model are also rated as plausible by the subjects. 1 Introduction Much recent work in lexical semantics has been concerned with accounting for regular polysemy, i.e., the regular and predictable sense alternations certain classes of words are subject to. Adjectives, more than other categories, are a striking example of regular polysemy since they are able to take on different meanings depending on their context, viz., the noun or noun class they modify (see Pustejovsky (1995) and the references therein). The adjective fast in (1) receives different interpretations when modifying the nouns programmer, plane and scientist. A fast programmer is typically a programmer who programs quickly, a fast plane is typically a plane that flies quickly, a fast scientist can be a scientist who publishes papers quickly, who performs experiments quickly, who observes something quickly, who reasons, thinks, or runs quickly. Interestingly, adjectives like fast are ambiguous across and within the nouns they modify. A fast plane is not only a plane that flies quickly, but also a plane 
bserves that the noun figuring in an adjective-noun combination is usually the subject or object of the paraphrasing verb. Although fast usually triggers a verb-subject interpretation (see (1)), easy and difficult trigger verb-object interpretations (see (2a,b)). An easy problem is usually a problem that is easy to solve, whereas a difficult language is a language that is difficult to learn, speak, or write. Adjectives like good allow either verb-subject or verb-object interpretations: a good cook is a cook who cooks well whereas good soup is soup that tastes good or soup that is good to eat. Pustejovsky (1995) avoids enumerating the various senses for adjectives like fast by exploiting the semantics of the nouns they modify. Pustejovsky treats nouns as having a qualia structure as part of their lexical entries, which among other things, specifies possible events associated with the entity. For example, the telic (purpose) role of the qualia structure for problem has a value equivalent to solve. When the adjective easy is combined with problem, it predicates over the telic role of problem and consequently the adjective-noun combination receives the interpretation a problem that is easy to solve. Pus
vP) were adjacent and extracted the verb and the head of the AdvP immediately following or preceding it. From constructions with adjectives immediately followed by infinitival complements with an optionally intervening for-PP (see (17c)) we extracted the adjective and the main verb of the infinitival complement. 2.3 Comparison against the Literature In what follows we explain the properties of the model by applying it to a small number of adjective-noun combinations taken from the lexical semantics literature. Table 1 gives the interpretations of eight adjective-noun combinations discussed in Pustejovsky (1995) and Vendler (1968). Table 2 shows the five most likely interpretations for these combinations as derived by the model discussed in the previous sections (v1 is the most likely interpretation, v2 is the second most likely interpretation, etc.). First notice that our model predicts variation in meaning when the same adjective modifies different nouns by providing different interpretations for easy problem and easy planet (see Table 2). Our model agrees with Vendler (1968) in the interpretation of easy problem (see Tables 1 and 2). Furthermore, it provides the additional meanings “a problem that
can be considered as a subtype of the meaning suggested by Pustejovsky (1995): an umbrella functions well if it opens well, closes well, covers well, etc. Although Pustejovsky suggests only a subject-related interpretation for good umbrella, the model also derives plausible object-related interpretations: “an umbrella that is good to keep, good for waving, good to hold, good to run for, good to leave”. Adjective Interpretation easy problem a problem that is easy to solve (Vendler, 1968, easy planet a planet that is easy to observe (Vendler, 1968, good umbrella an umbrella that functions well (Pustejovsky, 1995, 43) good shoe a shoe that is good for wearing, for walking (Vendler, 1968, 99) fast horse a horse that runs fast (Vendler, 1968, 92) difficult language a language that is difficult to speak, learn, write, understand (Vendler, 1968, 99) careful scientist a scientist who observes, performs, runs experiments carefully (Vendler, 1968, 92) comfortable chair a chair on which one sits comfortably (Vendler, 1968, Table 1: Paraphrases for adjective-noun combinations taken from the literature P(v,n,a,rel) v1 v2 v3 v4 v5 P(v,problem,easy,OBJ) solve deal with identify tackle handle P(v,planet,easy,OBJ) 
adjective, i.e., whether the adjective is biased towards a subject or object interpretation or whether it is equi-biased; (c) whether there is a linear relationship between the model-derived likelihood of a given meaning and its perceived plausibility, using correlation analysis. 3.1.1 Materials and Design We chose nine adjectives according to a set of minimal criteria and paired each adjective with 10 nouns randomly selected from the BNC. We chose the adjectives as follows: we first compiled a list of all the polysemous adjectives mentioned in the lexical semantics literature (Vendler, 1968; Pustejovsky, 1995). From these we randomly sampled nine adjectives (difficult, easy, fast, good, hard, right, safe, slow, wrong). These adjectives had to be unambiguous with respect to their part-of-speech: each adjective was unambiguously tagged as “adjective” 98.6% of the time, measured as the number of different part-of-speech tags assigned to the word in the BNC. We identified adjective-noun pairs using Gsearch (Corley et al., 2000), a chart parser which detects syntactic patterns in a tagged corpus by exploiting a userspecified context free grammar and a syntactic query. Gsearch was run on a lemmatized ver
