 translation come in a number of different flavors. In the simplest form, translations are stored and reused for the translation of new input. This approach, known as translation memory, example-based or case-based translation, can work on the word level as well as on structured examples as they are generated during analysis and generation in more grammar-based translation paradigms (Kitano, 1993; Brown, 1996). Finite state transducers, which can be learned from bilingual corpora, have been proposed for automatic translation (Amengual et al., 2000), as have been bilingual stochastic grammars (Wu, 1996). Statistical approaches (Wang and Waibel, 1997; Och et al., 1999) also fall into the category of corpus based approaches. In this paper, a translation method is proposed which is based on the very same principles as the aforementioned approaches. One difference is, that not a fully automatic training of the translation model is performed. Rather, a number of special purpose transducers are hand-crafted and used then at two points. First, to convert the bilingual training corpus into a translation memory containing translation patterns rather than merely sentence pairs, and which is itself use
ummarize: each transducer is given as a set of quadruples of the form: [label # source pattern # target pattern # score]. At runtime these patterns are stored in a prefix tree with respect to the source patterns. We write the labels at first position as these translations patterns can be used in the reverse direction, i.e. from target language to source language. In section 2.4 this property is used to convert a bilingual corpus into a set of translation patterns which are formulated in terms of words and category labels. It also shows the structural identity to bilingual grammars as used in (Wu, 1996). 2.2 Construction of the Transducers Most of the transducers are customized towards the domain for which the translation system is developed. In the VERBMOBIL Corpus, which is used for the experiments, time and date expressions are very prominent. To translate those expressions, a small grammar has been developed and coded as finite state transducer. Actually, two transducers are used. On the first level, words are replaced by labels, like DAYOFWEEK = {Montag/Monday, Dienstag/Tuesday, ...I. On the second level, these labels together with labeled numbers (ordinal, cardinal, fractions) from the
