is represented by a finite vocabulary of feature values, fv. Thus, we can represent the observable properties of an event mention as a vector of L feature type – feature value pairs ((FT1 : fv1i), ... , (FTL : fvLi)), where each feature value index i ranges in the feature value space associated with a feature type. 3.1 A Finite Feature Model We present an extension of the hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) model which is able to represent each observable object (i.e., event mention) by a finite number of feature types L. Our HDP extension is also inspired from the Bayesian model proposed by Haghighi and Klein (2007). However, their model is strictly customized for entity coreference resolution, and therefore, extending it to include additional features for each observable object is a challenging task (Ng, 2008; Poon and Domingos, 2008). In the HDP model, a Dirichlet process (DP) (Ferguson, 1973) is associated with each document, and each mixture component (i.e., event) is shared across documents. To describe its extension, we consider Z the set of indicator random variables for indices of events, φz the set of parameters associated with an event z, φ a notation for all model parameters, and X a notation 
), where each feature value index i ranges in the feature value space associated with a feature type. 3.1 A Finite Feature Model We present an extension of the hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) model which is able to represent each observable object (i.e., event mention) by a finite number of feature types L. Our HDP extension is also inspired from the Bayesian model proposed by Haghighi and Klein (2007). However, their model is strictly customized for entity coreference resolution, and therefore, extending it to include additional features for each observable object is a challenging task (Ng, 2008; Poon and Domingos, 2008). In the HDP model, a Dirichlet process (DP) (Ferguson, 1973) is associated with each document, and each mixture component (i.e., event) is shared across documents. To describe its extension, we consider Z the set of indicator random variables for indices of events, φz the set of parameters associated with an event z, φ a notation for all model parameters, and X a notation for all random variables that represent observable features.2 Given a document collection annotated with event mentions, the goal is to find the best assignment of event indices Z*, which maximize t
ach feature value index i ranges in the feature value space associated with a feature type. 3.1 A Finite Feature Model We present an extension of the hierarchical Dirichlet process (HDP) model which is able to represent each observable object (i.e., event mention) by a finite number of feature types L. Our HDP extension is also inspired from the Bayesian model proposed by Haghighi and Klein (2007). However, their model is strictly customized for entity coreference resolution, and therefore, extending it to include additional features for each observable object is a challenging task (Ng, 2008; Poon and Domingos, 2008). In the HDP model, a Dirichlet process (DP) (Ferguson, 1973) is associated with each document, and each mixture component (i.e., event) is shared across documents. To describe its extension, we consider Z the set of indicator random variables for indices of events, φz the set of parameters associated with an event z, φ a notation for all model parameters, and X a notation for all random variables that represent observable features.2 Given a document collection annotated with event mentions, the goal is to find the best assignment of event indices Z*, which maximize the posterior probability P
