ages, and ii) evaluate the contribution of lexical knowledge in isolation, without interaction with other inference mechanisms. Results achieved on an English-Spanish corpus obtained from the RTE3 dataset support our claim, with an overall accuracy above average scores reported by RTE participants on monolingual data. Finally, we show that using parallel corpora to extract paraphrase tables reveals their potential also in the monolingual setting, improving the results achieved with other sources of lexical knowledge. 1 Introduction Cross-lingual Textual Entailment (CLTE) has been proposed by (Mehdad et al, 2010) as an extension of Textual Entailment (Dagan and Glickman, 2004) that consists in deciding, given two texts T and H in different languages, if the meaning of H can be inferred from the meaning of T. The task is inherently difficult, as it adds issues related to the multilingual dimension to the complexity of semantic inference at the textual level. For instance, the reliance of current monolingual TE systems on lexical resources (e.g. WordNet, VerbOcean, FrameNet) and deep processing components (e.g. syntactic and semantic parsers, co-reference resolution tools, temporal expressions recognize
e in isolation, without interaction with other inference mechanisms. Results achieved on an English-Spanish corpus obtained from the RTE3 dataset support our claim, with an overall accuracy above average scores reported by RTE participants on monolingual data. Finally, we show that using parallel corpora to extract paraphrase tables reveals their potential also in the monolingual setting, improving the results achieved with other sources of lexical knowledge. 1 Introduction Cross-lingual Textual Entailment (CLTE) has been proposed by (Mehdad et al, 2010) as an extension of Textual Entailment (Dagan and Glickman, 2004) that consists in deciding, given two texts T and H in different languages, if the meaning of H can be inferred from the meaning of T. The task is inherently difficult, as it adds issues related to the multilingual dimension to the complexity of semantic inference at the textual level. For instance, the reliance of current monolingual TE systems on lexical resources (e.g. WordNet, VerbOcean, FrameNet) and deep processing components (e.g. syntactic and semantic parsers, co-reference resolution tools, temporal expressions recognizers and normalizers) has to confront, at the cross-lingual level, 
he behaviour of the engine, and devise adhoc solutions to specific entailment problems. This paper investigates the idea, still unexplored, of a tighter integration of MT and TE algorithms and techniques. Our aim is to embed cross-lingual processing techniques inside the TE recognition process in order to avoid any dependency on external MT components, and eventually gain full control of the system?s behaviour. Along this direction, we 1336 start from the acquisition and use of lexical knowledge, which represents the basic building block of any TE system. Using the basic solution proposed by (Mehdad et al, 2010) as a term of comparison, we experiment with different sources of multilingual lexical knowledge to address the following questions: (1) What is the potential of the existing multilingual lexical resources to approach CLTE? To answer this question we experiment with lexical knowledge extracted from bilingual dictionaries, and from a multilingual lexical database. Such experiments show two main limitations of these resources, namely: i) their limited coverage, and ii) the difficulty to capture contextual information when only associations between single words (or at most named entities and mult
f available knowledge sources. Sections 3 and 4 address the first three questions, giving motivations for the use of bilingual parallel corpora in CLTE, and showing the results of our experiments. Section 5 addresses the last question, reporting on our experiments with paraphrase tables extracted from phrase tables on the monolingual RTE datasets. Section 6 concludes the paper, and outlines the directions of our future research. 2 Lexical resources for TE and CLTE All current approaches to monolingual TE, either syntactically oriented (Rus et al, 2005), or applying logical inference (Tatu and Moldovan, 2005), or adopting transformation-based techniques (Kouleykov and Magnini, 2005; Bar-Haim et al, 2008), incorporate different types of lexical knowledge to support textual inference. Such information ranges from i) lexical paraphrases (textual equivalences between terms) to ii) lexical relations preserving entailment between words, and iii) wordlevel similarity/relatedness scores. WordNet, the most widely used resource in TE, provides all the three types of information. Synonymy relations can be used to extract lexical paraphrases indicating that words from the text and the hypothesis entail each o
rst three questions, giving motivations for the use of bilingual parallel corpora in CLTE, and showing the results of our experiments. Section 5 addresses the last question, reporting on our experiments with paraphrase tables extracted from phrase tables on the monolingual RTE datasets. Section 6 concludes the paper, and outlines the directions of our future research. 2 Lexical resources for TE and CLTE All current approaches to monolingual TE, either syntactically oriented (Rus et al, 2005), or applying logical inference (Tatu and Moldovan, 2005), or adopting transformation-based techniques (Kouleykov and Magnini, 2005; Bar-Haim et al, 2008), incorporate different types of lexical knowledge to support textual inference. Such information ranges from i) lexical paraphrases (textual equivalences between terms) to ii) lexical relations preserving entailment between words, and iii) wordlevel similarity/relatedness scores. WordNet, the most widely used resource in TE, provides all the three types of information. Synonymy relations can be used to extract lexical paraphrases indicating that words from the text and the hypothesis entail each other, thus being interchangeable. Hypernymy/hyponymy chains can provide en
cating that words from the text and the hypothesis entail each other, thus being interchangeable. Hypernymy/hyponymy chains can provide entailmentpreserving relations between concepts, indicating that a word in the hypothesis can be replaced by a word from the text. Paths between concepts and glosses can be used to calculate similarity/relatedness scores between single words, that contribute to the computation of the overall similarity between the text and the hypothesis. Besides WordNet, the RTE literature documents the use of a variety of lexical information sources (Bentivogli et al, 2010; Dagan et al, 2009). These include, just to mention the most popular 1337 ones, DIRT (Lin and Pantel, 2001), VerbOcean (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004), FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998), and Wikipedia (Mehdad et al, 2010; Kouylekov et al, 2009). DIRT is a collection of statistically learned inference rules, that is often integrated as a source of lexical paraphrases and entailment rules. VerbOcean is a graph of fine-grained semantic relations between verbs, which are frequently used as a source of precise entailment rules between predicates. FrameNet is a knowledge-base of frames describing prototypical situations, and
rchangeable. Hypernymy/hyponymy chains can provide entailmentpreserving relations between concepts, indicating that a word in the hypothesis can be replaced by a word from the text. Paths between concepts and glosses can be used to calculate similarity/relatedness scores between single words, that contribute to the computation of the overall similarity between the text and the hypothesis. Besides WordNet, the RTE literature documents the use of a variety of lexical information sources (Bentivogli et al, 2010; Dagan et al, 2009). These include, just to mention the most popular 1337 ones, DIRT (Lin and Pantel, 2001), VerbOcean (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004), FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998), and Wikipedia (Mehdad et al, 2010; Kouylekov et al, 2009). DIRT is a collection of statistically learned inference rules, that is often integrated as a source of lexical paraphrases and entailment rules. VerbOcean is a graph of fine-grained semantic relations between verbs, which are frequently used as a source of precise entailment rules between predicates. FrameNet is a knowledge-base of frames describing prototypical situations, and the role of the participants they involve. It can be used as an alternative source of e
ains can provide entailmentpreserving relations between concepts, indicating that a word in the hypothesis can be replaced by a word from the text. Paths between concepts and glosses can be used to calculate similarity/relatedness scores between single words, that contribute to the computation of the overall similarity between the text and the hypothesis. Besides WordNet, the RTE literature documents the use of a variety of lexical information sources (Bentivogli et al, 2010; Dagan et al, 2009). These include, just to mention the most popular 1337 ones, DIRT (Lin and Pantel, 2001), VerbOcean (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004), FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998), and Wikipedia (Mehdad et al, 2010; Kouylekov et al, 2009). DIRT is a collection of statistically learned inference rules, that is often integrated as a source of lexical paraphrases and entailment rules. VerbOcean is a graph of fine-grained semantic relations between verbs, which are frequently used as a source of precise entailment rules between predicates. FrameNet is a knowledge-base of frames describing prototypical situations, and the role of the participants they involve. It can be used as an alternative source of entailment rules, or to determine the sem
elations between concepts, indicating that a word in the hypothesis can be replaced by a word from the text. Paths between concepts and glosses can be used to calculate similarity/relatedness scores between single words, that contribute to the computation of the overall similarity between the text and the hypothesis. Besides WordNet, the RTE literature documents the use of a variety of lexical information sources (Bentivogli et al, 2010; Dagan et al, 2009). These include, just to mention the most popular 1337 ones, DIRT (Lin and Pantel, 2001), VerbOcean (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004), FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998), and Wikipedia (Mehdad et al, 2010; Kouylekov et al, 2009). DIRT is a collection of statistically learned inference rules, that is often integrated as a source of lexical paraphrases and entailment rules. VerbOcean is a graph of fine-grained semantic relations between verbs, which are frequently used as a source of precise entailment rules between predicates. FrameNet is a knowledge-base of frames describing prototypical situations, and the role of the participants they involve. It can be used as an alternative source of entailment rules, or to determine the semantic overlap between texts and
g that a word in the hypothesis can be replaced by a word from the text. Paths between concepts and glosses can be used to calculate similarity/relatedness scores between single words, that contribute to the computation of the overall similarity between the text and the hypothesis. Besides WordNet, the RTE literature documents the use of a variety of lexical information sources (Bentivogli et al, 2010; Dagan et al, 2009). These include, just to mention the most popular 1337 ones, DIRT (Lin and Pantel, 2001), VerbOcean (Chklovski and Pantel, 2004), FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998), and Wikipedia (Mehdad et al, 2010; Kouylekov et al, 2009). DIRT is a collection of statistically learned inference rules, that is often integrated as a source of lexical paraphrases and entailment rules. VerbOcean is a graph of fine-grained semantic relations between verbs, which are frequently used as a source of precise entailment rules between predicates. FrameNet is a knowledge-base of frames describing prototypical situations, and the role of the participants they involve. It can be used as an alternative source of entailment rules, or to determine the semantic overlap between texts and hypotheses. Wikipedia is often use
ween texts and hypotheses. Wikipedia is often used to extract probabilistic entailment rules based word similarity/relatedness scores. Despite the consensus on the usefulness of lexical knowledge for textual inference, determining the actual impact of these resources is not straightforward, as they always represent one component in complex architectures that may use them in different ways. As emerges from the ablation tests reported in (Bentivogli et al, 2010), even the most common resources proved to have a positive impact on some systems and a negative impact on others. Some previous works (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Zhao et al, 2009; Kouylekov et al, 2009) indicate, as main limitations of the mentioned resources, their limited coverage, their low precision, and the fact that they are mostly suitable to capture relations mainly between single words. Addressing CLTE we have to face additional and more problematic issues related to: i) the stronger need of lexical knowledge, and ii) the limited availability of multilingual lexical resources. As regards the first issue, it?s worth noting that in the monolingual scenario simple ?bag of words? (or ?bag of ngrams?) approaches are per se sufficient to achieve r
ia is often used to extract probabilistic entailment rules based word similarity/relatedness scores. Despite the consensus on the usefulness of lexical knowledge for textual inference, determining the actual impact of these resources is not straightforward, as they always represent one component in complex architectures that may use them in different ways. As emerges from the ablation tests reported in (Bentivogli et al, 2010), even the most common resources proved to have a positive impact on some systems and a negative impact on others. Some previous works (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005; Zhao et al, 2009; Kouylekov et al, 2009) indicate, as main limitations of the mentioned resources, their limited coverage, their low precision, and the fact that they are mostly suitable to capture relations mainly between single words. Addressing CLTE we have to face additional and more problematic issues related to: i) the stronger need of lexical knowledge, and ii) the limited availability of multilingual lexical resources. As regards the first issue, it?s worth noting that in the monolingual scenario simple ?bag of words? (or ?bag of ngrams?) approaches are per se sufficient to achieve results above basel
are per se sufficient to achieve results above baseline. In contrast, their application in the cross-lingual setting is not a viable solution due to the impossibility to perform direct lexical matches between texts and hypotheses in different languages. This situation makes the availability of multilingual lexical knowledge a necessary condition to bridge the language gap. However, with the only exceptions represented by WordNet and Wikipedia, most of the aforementioned resources are available only for English. Multilingual lexical databases aligned with the EnglishWordNet (e.g. MultiWordNet (Pianta et al, 2002)) have been created for several languages, with different degrees of coverage. As an example, the 57,424 synsets of the Spanish section of MultiWordNet algned to English cover just around 50% of the WordNet?s synsets, thus making the coverage issue even more problematic than for TE. As regards Wikipedia, the crosslingual links between pages in different languages offer a possibility to extract lexical knowledge useful for CLTE. However, due to their relatively small number (especially for some languages), bilingual lexicons extracted from Wikipedia are still inadequate to provide acceptable co
es. In particular, ?YES? and ?NO? judgements are assigned considering the proportion of words in the hypothesis that are found also in the text. This way to approximate entailment reflects the intuition that, as a directional relation between the text and the hypothesis, the full content of H has to be found in T. 3.1 Extracting Phrase and Paraphrase Tables Phrase tables (PHT) contain pairs of corresponding phrases in two languages, together with association probabilities. They are widely used in MT as a way to figure out how to translate input in one language into output in another language (Koehn et al, 2003). There are several methods to build phrase tables. The one adopted in this work consists in learning phrase alignments from a word-aligned bilingual corpus. In order to build English-Spanish phrase tables for our experiments, we used the freely available Europarl V.4, News Commentary and United Nations Spanish-English parallel corpora released for the WMT101. We run TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994) for tokenization, and used the Giza++ (Och and Ney, 2003) to align the tokenized corpora at the word level. Subsequently, we extracted the bilingual phrase table from the aligned corpora using the Moses t
sociation probabilities. They are widely used in MT as a way to figure out how to translate input in one language into output in another language (Koehn et al, 2003). There are several methods to build phrase tables. The one adopted in this work consists in learning phrase alignments from a word-aligned bilingual corpus. In order to build English-Spanish phrase tables for our experiments, we used the freely available Europarl V.4, News Commentary and United Nations Spanish-English parallel corpora released for the WMT101. We run TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994) for tokenization, and used the Giza++ (Och and Ney, 2003) to align the tokenized corpora at the word level. Subsequently, we extracted the bilingual phrase table from the aligned corpora using the Moses toolkit (Koehn et al, 2007). Since the resulting phrase table was very large, we eliminated all the entries with identical content in the two languages, and the ones containing phrases longer than 5 words in one of the two sides. In addition, in order to experiment with different phrase tables providing different degrees of coverage and precision, we extracted 7 phrase tables by pruning the initial one on the direct phrase translation probabilities o
are several methods to build phrase tables. The one adopted in this work consists in learning phrase alignments from a word-aligned bilingual corpus. In order to build English-Spanish phrase tables for our experiments, we used the freely available Europarl V.4, News Commentary and United Nations Spanish-English parallel corpora released for the WMT101. We run TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994) for tokenization, and used the Giza++ (Och and Ney, 2003) to align the tokenized corpora at the word level. Subsequently, we extracted the bilingual phrase table from the aligned corpora using the Moses toolkit (Koehn et al, 2007). Since the resulting phrase table was very large, we eliminated all the entries with identical content in the two languages, and the ones containing phrases longer than 5 words in one of the two sides. In addition, in order to experiment with different phrase tables providing different degrees of coverage and precision, we extracted 7 phrase tables by pruning the initial one on the direct phrase translation probabilities of 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5. The resulting 1http://www.statmt.org/wmt10/ phrase tables range from 76 to 48 million entries, with an average of 3.9 words per phr
to experiment with different phrase tables providing different degrees of coverage and precision, we extracted 7 phrase tables by pruning the initial one on the direct phrase translation probabilities of 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5. The resulting 1http://www.statmt.org/wmt10/ phrase tables range from 76 to 48 million entries, with an average of 3.9 words per phrase. Paraphrase tables (PPHT) contain pairs of corresponding phrases in the same language, possibly associated with probabilities. They proved to be useful in a number of NLP applications such as natural language generation (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), multidocument summarization (McKeown et al, 2002), automatic evaluation of MT (Denkowski and Lavie, 2010), and TE (Dinu and Wang, 2009). One of the proposed methods to extract paraphrases relies on a pivot-based approach using phrase alignments in a bilingual parallel corpus (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005). With this method, all the different phrases in one language that are aligned with the same phrase in the other language are extracted as paraphrases. After the extraction, pruning techniques (Snover et al, 2009) can be applied to increase the precision of the extracted paraphrases. In 
fferent degrees of coverage and precision, we extracted 7 phrase tables by pruning the initial one on the direct phrase translation probabilities of 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5. The resulting 1http://www.statmt.org/wmt10/ phrase tables range from 76 to 48 million entries, with an average of 3.9 words per phrase. Paraphrase tables (PPHT) contain pairs of corresponding phrases in the same language, possibly associated with probabilities. They proved to be useful in a number of NLP applications such as natural language generation (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), multidocument summarization (McKeown et al, 2002), automatic evaluation of MT (Denkowski and Lavie, 2010), and TE (Dinu and Wang, 2009). One of the proposed methods to extract paraphrases relies on a pivot-based approach using phrase alignments in a bilingual parallel corpus (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005). With this method, all the different phrases in one language that are aligned with the same phrase in the other language are extracted as paraphrases. After the extraction, pruning techniques (Snover et al, 2009) can be applied to increase the precision of the extracted paraphrases. In our work we used available2 paraphrase databases fo
acted 7 phrase tables by pruning the initial one on the direct phrase translation probabilities of 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5. The resulting 1http://www.statmt.org/wmt10/ phrase tables range from 76 to 48 million entries, with an average of 3.9 words per phrase. Paraphrase tables (PPHT) contain pairs of corresponding phrases in the same language, possibly associated with probabilities. They proved to be useful in a number of NLP applications such as natural language generation (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), multidocument summarization (McKeown et al, 2002), automatic evaluation of MT (Denkowski and Lavie, 2010), and TE (Dinu and Wang, 2009). One of the proposed methods to extract paraphrases relies on a pivot-based approach using phrase alignments in a bilingual parallel corpus (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005). With this method, all the different phrases in one language that are aligned with the same phrase in the other language are extracted as paraphrases. After the extraction, pruning techniques (Snover et al, 2009) can be applied to increase the precision of the extracted paraphrases. In our work we used available2 paraphrase databases for English and Spanish which have been extracted using th
 initial one on the direct phrase translation probabilities of 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5. The resulting 1http://www.statmt.org/wmt10/ phrase tables range from 76 to 48 million entries, with an average of 3.9 words per phrase. Paraphrase tables (PPHT) contain pairs of corresponding phrases in the same language, possibly associated with probabilities. They proved to be useful in a number of NLP applications such as natural language generation (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), multidocument summarization (McKeown et al, 2002), automatic evaluation of MT (Denkowski and Lavie, 2010), and TE (Dinu and Wang, 2009). One of the proposed methods to extract paraphrases relies on a pivot-based approach using phrase alignments in a bilingual parallel corpus (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005). With this method, all the different phrases in one language that are aligned with the same phrase in the other language are extracted as paraphrases. After the extraction, pruning techniques (Snover et al, 2009) can be applied to increase the precision of the extracted paraphrases. In our work we used available2 paraphrase databases for English and Spanish which have been extracted using the method previously outlined. 
ange from 76 to 48 million entries, with an average of 3.9 words per phrase. Paraphrase tables (PPHT) contain pairs of corresponding phrases in the same language, possibly associated with probabilities. They proved to be useful in a number of NLP applications such as natural language generation (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), multidocument summarization (McKeown et al, 2002), automatic evaluation of MT (Denkowski and Lavie, 2010), and TE (Dinu and Wang, 2009). One of the proposed methods to extract paraphrases relies on a pivot-based approach using phrase alignments in a bilingual parallel corpus (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005). With this method, all the different phrases in one language that are aligned with the same phrase in the other language are extracted as paraphrases. After the extraction, pruning techniques (Snover et al, 2009) can be applied to increase the precision of the extracted paraphrases. In our work we used available2 paraphrase databases for English and Spanish which have been extracted using the method previously outlined. Moreover, in order to experiment with different paraphrase sets providing different degrees of coverage and precision, we pruned the main paraphrase table based on the probabi
 in a number of NLP applications such as natural language generation (Iordanskaja et al, 1991), multidocument summarization (McKeown et al, 2002), automatic evaluation of MT (Denkowski and Lavie, 2010), and TE (Dinu and Wang, 2009). One of the proposed methods to extract paraphrases relies on a pivot-based approach using phrase alignments in a bilingual parallel corpus (Bannard and Callison-Burch, 2005). With this method, all the different phrases in one language that are aligned with the same phrase in the other language are extracted as paraphrases. After the extraction, pruning techniques (Snover et al, 2009) can be applied to increase the precision of the extracted paraphrases. In our work we used available2 paraphrase databases for English and Spanish which have been extracted using the method previously outlined. Moreover, in order to experiment with different paraphrase sets providing different degrees of coverage and precision, we pruned the main paraphrase table based on the probabilities, associated to its entries, of 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3. The number of phrase pairs extracted varies from 6 million to about 80000, with an average of 3.2 words per phrase. 3.2 Phrasal Matching Method In order to m
t matches, the lexical matches between pairs of phrases which have already been identified as exact matches are not considered. Once matching for each n-gram level has been concluded, the number of matches (Mn) and the number of phrases in the hypothesis (Nn) are used to estimate the portion of phrases in H that are matched at each level (n). The phrasal matching score for each n-gram level is calculated as follows: Scoren = Mn Nn To combine the phrasal matching scores obtained at each n-gram level, and optimize their relative weights, we trained a Support Vector Machine classifier, SVMlight (Joachims, 1999), using each score as a feature. 4 Experiments on CLTE To address the first two questions outlined in Section 1, we experimented with the phrase matching method previously described, contrasting the effectiveness of lexical information extracted from parallel corpora with the knowledge provided by other resources used in the same way. 4.1 Dataset The dataset used for our experiments is an EnglishSpanish entailment corpus obtained from the original RTE3 dataset by translating the English hypothesis into Spanish. It consists of 1600 pairs derived from the RTE3 development and test sets (800+800)
 phrase matching method previously described, contrasting the effectiveness of lexical information extracted from parallel corpora with the knowledge provided by other resources used in the same way. 4.1 Dataset The dataset used for our experiments is an EnglishSpanish entailment corpus obtained from the original RTE3 dataset by translating the English hypothesis into Spanish. It consists of 1600 pairs derived from the RTE3 development and test sets (800+800). Translations have been generated by the CrowdFlower3 channel to Amazon Mechanical Turk4 (MTurk), adopting the methodology proposed by (Negri and Mehdad, 2010). The method relies on translation-validation cycles, defined as separate jobs routed to MTurk?s workforce. Translation jobs return one Spanish version for each hypothesis. Validation jobs ask multiple workers to check the correctness of each translation using the original English sentence as reference. At each cycle, the translated hypothesis accepted by the majority of trustful validators5 are stored in the CLTE corpus, while wrong translations are sent back to workers in a new translation job. Although the quality of the results is enhanced by the possibility to automatically weed out untru
ction addresses the third and the fourth research questions outlined in Section 1. Building on the positive results achieved on the cross-lingual scenario, we investigate the possibility to exploit bilingual parallel corpora in the traditional monolingual scenario. Using the same approach discussed in Section 4, we compare the results achieved with English paraphrase tables with those obtained with other widely used monolingual knowledge resources over two RTE datasets. For the sake of completeness, we report in this section also the results obtained adopting the ?basic solution? proposed by (Mehdad et al, 2010). Although it was presented as an approach to CLTE, the proposed method brings the problem back to the monolingual case by translating H into the language of T. The comparison with this method aims at verifying the real potential of parallel corpora against the use of a competitive MT system (Google Translate) in the same scenario. 5.1 Dataset We experiment with the original RTE3 and RTE5 datasets, annotated with token, lemma, and stem information using the TreeTagger and the Snowball stemmer. In addition to confront our method with the solution proposed by (Mehdad et al, 2010) we translated t
the three most 12We pruned the paraphrase table (PPHT), with probabilities set to 0.1 (PPHT 0.1), 0.2 (PPHT 0.2), and 0.3 (PPHT 0.3) widely used English resources for Textual Entailment (Bentivogli et al, 2010), namely: WordNet (WN). WordNet 3.0 has been used to extract a set of 5396 pairs of words connected by the hyponymy and synonymy relations. VerbOcean (VO). VerbOcean has been used to extract 18232 pairs of verbs connected by the ?stronger-than? relation (e.g. ?kill? stronger-than ?injure?). Wikipedia (WIKI). We performed Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA) over Wikipedia using the jLSI tool (Giuliano, 2007) to measure the relatedness between words in the dataset. Then, we filtered all the pairs with similarity lower than 0.7 as proposed by (Kouylekov et al, 2009). In this way we obtained 13760 word pairs. 5.3 Results and Discussion Table 2 shows the accuracy results calculated over the original RTE3 and RTE5 test sets, training our classifier over the corresponding development sets. The first two rows of the table show that pruned paraphrase tables always outperform the other lexical resources used for comparison, with an accuracy increase up to 3%. In particular, we observe that using 0.2 as a 
rpora, results in better performance not only in CLTE, 1342 but also in the monolingual scenario. The comparison with the results achieved on monolingual data obtained by automatically translating the Spanish hypotheses (RTE3-G row in Table 2) leads to four main observations. First, we notice that dealing with MT-derived inputs, the optimal pruning threshold changes from 0.2 to 0.1, leading to the highest accuracy of 63.50%. This suggests that the noise introduced by incorrect translations can be tackled by increasing the coverage of the paraphrase table. Second, in line with the findings of (Mehdad et al, 2010), the results obtained over the MT-derived corpus are equal to those we achieve over the original RTE3 dataset (i.e. 63.50%). Third, the accuracy obtained over the CLTE corpus using combined phrase and paraphrase tables (62.88%, as reported in Table 1) is comparable to the best result gained over the automatically translated dataset (63.50%). In all the other cases, the use of phrase and paraphrase tables on CLTE data outperforms the results achieved on the same data after translation. Finally, it?s worth remarking that applying our phrase matching method on the translated dataset without any 
 scenario. Contrasting results with those obtained with the most widely used resources in TE, we demonstrated the effectiveness of paraphrase tables as a mean to overcome the bias towards single words featured by the existing resources. Our future work will address both the extraction of lexical information from bilingual parallel corpora, and its use for TE and CLTE. On one side, we plan to explore alternative ways to build phrase and paraphrase tables. One possible direction is to consider linguistically motivated approaches, such as the extraction of syntactic phrase tables as proposed by (Yamada and Knight, 2001). Another interesting direction is to investigate the potential of paraphrase patterns (i.e. patterns including partof-speech slots), extracted from bilingual parallel corpora with the method proposed by (Zhao et al, 2009). On the other side we will investigate more sophisticated methods to exploit the acquired lexical knowledge. As a first step, the probability scores assigned to phrasal entries will be considered to perform weighted phrase matching as an improved criterion to approximate entailment. 1343 Acknowledgments This work has been partially supported by the ECfunded project CoSyne (F
