llected dataset. We observed that derivationally suffixed Bangla words are in general decomposed during processing and compositionality between the stem and the suffix plays an important role in the decomposition process. We observed the same phenomena for Bangla verb sequences where experiments showed noncompositional verb sequences are in general stored as a whole in the ML and low traces of compositional verbs are found in the mental lexicon. 1 Introduction Mental lexicon is the representation of the words in the human mind and their associations that help fast retrieval and comprehension (Aitchison, 1987). Words are known to be associated with each other in terms of, orthography, phonology, morphology and semantics. However, the precise nature of these relations is unknown. An important issue that has been a subject of study for a long time is to identify the fundamental units in terms of which the mental lexicon is organized. That is, whether lexical representations in the mental lexicon are word based or are they organized along morphological lines. For example, whether a word such as ?unimaginable? is stored in the mental lexicon as a whole word or do we break it up ?un-? , ?imagine? and ?-
en a subject of study for a long time is to identify the fundamental units in terms of which the mental lexicon is organized. That is, whether lexical representations in the mental lexicon are word based or are they organized along morphological lines. For example, whether a word such as ?unimaginable? is stored in the mental lexicon as a whole word or do we break it up ?un-? , ?imagine? and ?- able?, understand the meaning of each of these constituent and then recombine the units to comprehend the whole word. Such questions are typically answered by designing appropriate priming experiments (Marslen-Wilson et al, 1994) or other lexical decision tasks. The reaction time of the subjects for recognizing various lexical items under appropriate conditions reveals important facts about their organization in the brain. (See Sec. 2 for models of morphological organization and access and related experiments). A clear understanding of the structure and the processing mechanism of the mental lexicon will further our knowledge of how the human brain processes language. Further, these linguistically important and interesting questions are also highly significant for computational linguistics (CL) and natural language pr
eveals important facts about their organization in the brain. (See Sec. 2 for models of morphological organization and access and related experiments). A clear understanding of the structure and the processing mechanism of the mental lexicon will further our knowledge of how the human brain processes language. Further, these linguistically important and interesting questions are also highly significant for computational linguistics (CL) and natural language processing (NLP) applications. Their computational significance arises from the issue of their storage in lexical resources like WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) and raises the questions like, how to store morphologically complex words, in a lexical resource like WordNet keeping in mind the storage and access efficiency. There is a rich literature on organization and lexical access of morphologically complex words where experiments have been conducted mainly for derivational suffixed words of English, Hebrew, Italian, French, Dutch, and few other languages (Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008; Frost et al, 1997; Grainger, et al, 1991; Drews and Zwitserlood, 1995). However, we do not know of any such investigations for Indian languages, which 123 are morphologi
atural language processing (NLP) applications. Their computational significance arises from the issue of their storage in lexical resources like WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) and raises the questions like, how to store morphologically complex words, in a lexical resource like WordNet keeping in mind the storage and access efficiency. There is a rich literature on organization and lexical access of morphologically complex words where experiments have been conducted mainly for derivational suffixed words of English, Hebrew, Italian, French, Dutch, and few other languages (Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008; Frost et al, 1997; Grainger, et al, 1991; Drews and Zwitserlood, 1995). However, we do not know of any such investigations for Indian languages, which 123 are morphologically richer than many of their Indo-European cousins. Moreover, Indian languages show some distinct phenomena like, compound and composite verbs for which no such investigations have been conducted yet. On the other hand, experiments indicate that mental representation and processing of morphologically complex words are not quite language independent (Taft, 2004). Therefore, the findings from experiments in one language cannot be generalized t
cessing (NLP) applications. Their computational significance arises from the issue of their storage in lexical resources like WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) and raises the questions like, how to store morphologically complex words, in a lexical resource like WordNet keeping in mind the storage and access efficiency. There is a rich literature on organization and lexical access of morphologically complex words where experiments have been conducted mainly for derivational suffixed words of English, Hebrew, Italian, French, Dutch, and few other languages (Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008; Frost et al, 1997; Grainger, et al, 1991; Drews and Zwitserlood, 1995). However, we do not know of any such investigations for Indian languages, which 123 are morphologically richer than many of their Indo-European cousins. Moreover, Indian languages show some distinct phenomena like, compound and composite verbs for which no such investigations have been conducted yet. On the other hand, experiments indicate that mental representation and processing of morphologically complex words are not quite language independent (Taft, 2004). Therefore, the findings from experiments in one language cannot be generalized to all languages making 
ons. Their computational significance arises from the issue of their storage in lexical resources like WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) and raises the questions like, how to store morphologically complex words, in a lexical resource like WordNet keeping in mind the storage and access efficiency. There is a rich literature on organization and lexical access of morphologically complex words where experiments have been conducted mainly for derivational suffixed words of English, Hebrew, Italian, French, Dutch, and few other languages (Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008; Frost et al, 1997; Grainger, et al, 1991; Drews and Zwitserlood, 1995). However, we do not know of any such investigations for Indian languages, which 123 are morphologically richer than many of their Indo-European cousins. Moreover, Indian languages show some distinct phenomena like, compound and composite verbs for which no such investigations have been conducted yet. On the other hand, experiments indicate that mental representation and processing of morphologically complex words are not quite language independent (Taft, 2004). Therefore, the findings from experiments in one language cannot be generalized to all languages making it important to conduct simila
talian, French, Dutch, and few other languages (Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008; Frost et al, 1997; Grainger, et al, 1991; Drews and Zwitserlood, 1995). However, we do not know of any such investigations for Indian languages, which 123 are morphologically richer than many of their Indo-European cousins. Moreover, Indian languages show some distinct phenomena like, compound and composite verbs for which no such investigations have been conducted yet. On the other hand, experiments indicate that mental representation and processing of morphologically complex words are not quite language independent (Taft, 2004). Therefore, the findings from experiments in one language cannot be generalized to all languages making it important to conduct similar experimentations in other languages. This work aims to design cognitively motivated computational models that can explain the organization and processing of Bangla morphologically complex words in the mental lexicon. Presently we will concentrate on the following two aspects: ? Organization and processing of Bangla Polymorphemic words: our objective here is to determine whether the mental lexicon decomposes morphologically complex words into its constituent m
has been reached yet with respect to the issue that whether to consider them as unitary lexical units or are they syntactically assembled combinations of two independent lexical units. As linguistic arguments have so far not led to a consensus, we here use cognitive experiments to probe the brain signatures of verb-verb combinations and propose cognitive as well as computational models regarding the possible organization and processing of Bangla CVs in the mental lexicon (ML). With respect to this, we apply the different priming and other lexical decision experiments, described in literature (Marslen-Wilson et al, 1994; Bentin, S. and Feldman, 1990) specifically for derivationally suffixed polymorphemic words and compound verbs of Bangla. Our cross-modal and masked priming experiment on Bangla derivationally suffixed words shows that morphological relatedness between lexical items triggers a significant priming effect, even when the forms are phonologically/orthographically unrelated. These observations are similar to those reported for English and indicate that derivationally suffixed words in Bangla are in general accessed through decomposition of the word into its constituent morphemes. Further, based on
re; Sec. 4 presents the processing of CVs; and finally, Sec. 5 concludes the paper by presenting the future direction of the work. 2 Related Works 2.1 Representation of polymorphemic words Over the last few decades many studies have attempted to understand the representation and processing of morphologically complex words in the brain for various languages. Most of the studies are designed to support one of the two mutually exclusive paradigms: the full-listing and the morphemic model. The full-listing model claims that polymorphic words are represented as a whole in the human mental lexicon (Bradley, 1980; Butterworth, 1983). On the other hand, morphemic model argues that morphologically complex words are decomposed and represented in terms of the smaller morphemic units. The affixes are stripped away from the root form, which in turn are used to access the mental lexicon (Taft and Forster, 1975; Taft, 1981; MacKay, 1978). Intermediate to these two paradigms is the partial decomposition model that argues that different types of morphological forms are processed separately. For instance, the derived morphological forms are believed to be represented as a whole, whereas the representation of the
ents the processing of CVs; and finally, Sec. 5 concludes the paper by presenting the future direction of the work. 2 Related Works 2.1 Representation of polymorphemic words Over the last few decades many studies have attempted to understand the representation and processing of morphologically complex words in the brain for various languages. Most of the studies are designed to support one of the two mutually exclusive paradigms: the full-listing and the morphemic model. The full-listing model claims that polymorphic words are represented as a whole in the human mental lexicon (Bradley, 1980; Butterworth, 1983). On the other hand, morphemic model argues that morphologically complex words are decomposed and represented in terms of the smaller morphemic units. The affixes are stripped away from the root form, which in turn are used to access the mental lexicon (Taft and Forster, 1975; Taft, 1981; MacKay, 1978). Intermediate to these two paradigms is the partial decomposition model that argues that different types of morphological forms are processed separately. For instance, the derived morphological forms are believed to be represented as a whole, whereas the representation of the inflected forms fol
emic model argues that morphologically complex words are decomposed and represented in terms of the smaller morphemic units. The affixes are stripped away from the root form, which in turn are used to access the mental lexicon (Taft and Forster, 1975; Taft, 1981; MacKay, 1978). Intermediate to these two paradigms is the partial decomposition model that argues that different types of morphological forms are processed separately. For instance, the derived morphological forms are believed to be represented as a whole, whereas the representation of the inflected forms follows the morphemic model (Caramazza et al, 1988). Traditionally, priming experiments have been used to study the effects of morphology in language processing. Priming is a process that results in increase in speed or accuracy of response to a stimulus, called the target, based on the occurrence of a prior exposure of another stimulus, called the prime (Tulving et al, 1982). Here, subjects are exposed to a prime word for a short duration, and are subsequently shown a target word. The prime and target words may be morphologically, phonologically or semantically re124 lated. An analysis of the effect of the reaction time of subjects reveals th
reveals the actual organization and representation of the lexicon at the relevant level. See Pulverm?ller (2002) for a detailed account of such phenomena. It has been argued that frequency of a word influences the speed of lexical processing and thus, can serve as a diagnostic tool to observe the nature and organization of lexical representations. (Taft, 1975) with his experiment on English inflected words, argued that lexical decision responses of polymorphemic words depends upon the base word frequency. Similar observation for surface word frequency was also observed by (Bertram et al, 2000;Bradley, 1980;Burani et al, 1987;Burani et al, 1984;Schreuder et al, 1997; Taft 1975;Taft, 2004) where it has been claimed that words having low surface frequency tends to decompose. Later, Baayen(2000) proposed the dual processing race model that proposes that a specific morphologically complex form is accessed via its parts if the frequency of that word is above a certain threshold of frequency, then the direct route will win, and the word will be accessed as a whole. If it is below that same threshold of frequency, the parsing route will win, and the word will be accessed via its parts. 2.2 Representati
el. See Pulverm?ller (2002) for a detailed account of such phenomena. It has been argued that frequency of a word influences the speed of lexical processing and thus, can serve as a diagnostic tool to observe the nature and organization of lexical representations. (Taft, 1975) with his experiment on English inflected words, argued that lexical decision responses of polymorphemic words depends upon the base word frequency. Similar observation for surface word frequency was also observed by (Bertram et al, 2000;Bradley, 1980;Burani et al, 1987;Burani et al, 1984;Schreuder et al, 1997; Taft 1975;Taft, 2004) where it has been claimed that words having low surface frequency tends to decompose. Later, Baayen(2000) proposed the dual processing race model that proposes that a specific morphologically complex form is accessed via its parts if the frequency of that word is above a certain threshold of frequency, then the direct route will win, and the word will be accessed as a whole. If it is below that same threshold of frequency, the parsing route will win, and the word will be accessed via its parts. 2.2 Representation of Compound Verbs A compound verb (CV) consists of a sequence of two verbs (V1 a
und Verbs A compound verb (CV) consists of a sequence of two verbs (V1 and V2) acting as a single verb and expresses a single expression of meaning. For example, in the sentence ??????? ? ??? ??? ? (/ruTigulo kheYe phela/) ?bread-plural-the eat and drop-pres. Imp? ?Eat the breads? the verb sequence ???? ??? ? (eat drop)? is an example of CV. Compound verbs are a special phenomena that are abundantly found in IndoEuropean languages like Indian languages. A plethora of works has been done to provide linguistic explanations on the formation of such word, yet none so far has led to any consensus. Hook (1981) considers the second verb V2 as an aspectual complex comparable to the auxiliaries. Butt (1993) argues CV formations in Hindi and Urdu are either morphological or syntactical and their formation take place at the argument structure. Bashir (1993) tried to construct a semantic analysis based on ?prepared? and ?unprepared mind?. Similar findings have been proposed by Pandharipande (1993) that points out V1 and V2 are paired on the basis of their semantic compatibility, which is subject to syntactic constraints. Paul (2004) tried to represent Bangla CVs in terms of HPSG formalism. She proposes t
e verb and expresses a single expression of meaning. For example, in the sentence ??????? ? ??? ??? ? (/ruTigulo kheYe phela/) ?bread-plural-the eat and drop-pres. Imp? ?Eat the breads? the verb sequence ???? ??? ? (eat drop)? is an example of CV. Compound verbs are a special phenomena that are abundantly found in IndoEuropean languages like Indian languages. A plethora of works has been done to provide linguistic explanations on the formation of such word, yet none so far has led to any consensus. Hook (1981) considers the second verb V2 as an aspectual complex comparable to the auxiliaries. Butt (1993) argues CV formations in Hindi and Urdu are either morphological or syntactical and their formation take place at the argument structure. Bashir (1993) tried to construct a semantic analysis based on ?prepared? and ?unprepared mind?. Similar findings have been proposed by Pandharipande (1993) that points out V1 and V2 are paired on the basis of their semantic compatibility, which is subject to syntactic constraints. Paul (2004) tried to represent Bangla CVs in terms of HPSG formalism. She proposes that the selection of a V2 by a V1 is determined at the semantic level because the two verbs will
and drop-pres. Imp? ?Eat the breads? the verb sequence ???? ??? ? (eat drop)? is an example of CV. Compound verbs are a special phenomena that are abundantly found in IndoEuropean languages like Indian languages. A plethora of works has been done to provide linguistic explanations on the formation of such word, yet none so far has led to any consensus. Hook (1981) considers the second verb V2 as an aspectual complex comparable to the auxiliaries. Butt (1993) argues CV formations in Hindi and Urdu are either morphological or syntactical and their formation take place at the argument structure. Bashir (1993) tried to construct a semantic analysis based on ?prepared? and ?unprepared mind?. Similar findings have been proposed by Pandharipande (1993) that points out V1 and V2 are paired on the basis of their semantic compatibility, which is subject to syntactic constraints. Paul (2004) tried to represent Bangla CVs in terms of HPSG formalism. She proposes that the selection of a V2 by a V1 is determined at the semantic level because the two verbs will unify if and only if they are semantically compatible. Since none of the linguistic formalism could satisfactorily explain the unique phenomena of CV 
na that are abundantly found in IndoEuropean languages like Indian languages. A plethora of works has been done to provide linguistic explanations on the formation of such word, yet none so far has led to any consensus. Hook (1981) considers the second verb V2 as an aspectual complex comparable to the auxiliaries. Butt (1993) argues CV formations in Hindi and Urdu are either morphological or syntactical and their formation take place at the argument structure. Bashir (1993) tried to construct a semantic analysis based on ?prepared? and ?unprepared mind?. Similar findings have been proposed by Pandharipande (1993) that points out V1 and V2 are paired on the basis of their semantic compatibility, which is subject to syntactic constraints. Paul (2004) tried to represent Bangla CVs in terms of HPSG formalism. She proposes that the selection of a V2 by a V1 is determined at the semantic level because the two verbs will unify if and only if they are semantically compatible. Since none of the linguistic formalism could satisfactorily explain the unique phenomena of CV formation, we here for the first time drew our attention towards psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic studies to model the processing of verb-
on the formation of such word, yet none so far has led to any consensus. Hook (1981) considers the second verb V2 as an aspectual complex comparable to the auxiliaries. Butt (1993) argues CV formations in Hindi and Urdu are either morphological or syntactical and their formation take place at the argument structure. Bashir (1993) tried to construct a semantic analysis based on ?prepared? and ?unprepared mind?. Similar findings have been proposed by Pandharipande (1993) that points out V1 and V2 are paired on the basis of their semantic compatibility, which is subject to syntactic constraints. Paul (2004) tried to represent Bangla CVs in terms of HPSG formalism. She proposes that the selection of a V2 by a V1 is determined at the semantic level because the two verbs will unify if and only if they are semantically compatible. Since none of the linguistic formalism could satisfactorily explain the unique phenomena of CV formation, we here for the first time drew our attention towards psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic studies to model the processing of verb-verb combinations in the ML and compare these responses with that of the existing models. 3 The Proposed Approaches 3.1 The psycholinguist
ic level because the two verbs will unify if and only if they are semantically compatible. Since none of the linguistic formalism could satisfactorily explain the unique phenomena of CV formation, we here for the first time drew our attention towards psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic studies to model the processing of verb-verb combinations in the ML and compare these responses with that of the existing models. 3 The Proposed Approaches 3.1 The psycholinguistic experiments We apply two different priming experiments namely, the cross modal priming and masked priming experiment discussed in (Forster and Davis, 1984; Rastle et al, 2000;Marslen-Wilson et al, 1994; Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008) for Bangla morphologically complex words. Here, the prime is morphologically derived form of the target presented auditorily (for cross modal priming) or visually (for masked priming). The subjects were asked to make a lexical decision whether the given target is a valid word in that language. The same target word is again probed but with a different audio or visual probe called the control word. The control shows no relationship with the target. For example, baYaska (aged) and baYasa (age) is a prime-target pair, for
 and only if they are semantically compatible. Since none of the linguistic formalism could satisfactorily explain the unique phenomena of CV formation, we here for the first time drew our attention towards psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic studies to model the processing of verb-verb combinations in the ML and compare these responses with that of the existing models. 3 The Proposed Approaches 3.1 The psycholinguistic experiments We apply two different priming experiments namely, the cross modal priming and masked priming experiment discussed in (Forster and Davis, 1984; Rastle et al, 2000;Marslen-Wilson et al, 1994; Marslen-Wilson et al, 2008) for Bangla morphologically complex words. Here, the prime is morphologically derived form of the target presented auditorily (for cross modal priming) or visually (for masked priming). The subjects were asked to make a lexical decision whether the given target is a valid word in that language. The same target word is again probed but with a different audio or visual probe called the control word. The control shows no relationship with the target. For example, baYaska (aged) and baYasa (age) is a prime-target pair, for which the corresponding control-target pair co
ed earlier. However, around 22% of the test words were wrongly classified which the model fails to justify. Thus, a more rigorous set of experiments and data analysis are required to predict access mechanisms of such Bangla polymorphemic words. 3.3 Stem-Suffix Compositionality Compositionality refers to the fact that meaning of a complex expression is inferred from the meaning of its constituents. Therefore, the cost of retrieving a word from the secondary memory is directly proportional to the cost of retrieving the individual parts (i.e the stem and the suffix). Thus, following the work of (Milin et al, 2009) we define the compositionality of a morphologically complex word (We) as: C(We)=?1H(We)+?2H(e)+?3H(W|e)+ ?4H(e|W) Where, H(x) is entropy of an expression x, H(W|e) is the conditional entropy between the stem W and suffix e and ? is the proportionality factor whose value is computed through regression analysis. Next, we tried to compute the compositionality of the stem and suffixes in terms of relative entropy D(W||e) and Point wise mutual information (PMI). The relative entropy is the measure of the distance between the probability distribution of the stem W and the suffix e. The PMI measures
es. In order to do so, presently we have applied three different techniques to collect user data. In the first technique, we annotated 4500 V1+V2 sequences, along with their example sentences, using a group of three linguists (the expert subjects). We asked the experts to classify the verb sequences into three classes namely, CV, not a CV and not sure. Each linguist has received 2000 verb pairs along with their respective example sentences. Out of this, 1500 verb sequences are unique to each of them and rest 500 are overlapping. We measure the inter annotator agreement using the Fleiss Kappa (Fleiss et al., 1981) measure (?) where the agreement lies around 0.79. Next, out of the 500 common verb sequences that were annotated by all the three linguists, we randomly choose 300 V1+V2 pairs and presented them to 36 native Bangla speakers. We ask each subjects to give a compositionality score of each verb sequences under 1-10 point scale, 10 being highly compositional and 1 for noncompositional. We found an agreement of ?=0.69 among the subjects. We also observe a continuum of compositionality score among the verb sequences. This reflects that it is difficult to classify Bangla verb sequences discretely int
hich are not CV shows high degree of compositionality. In other words non CV verbs can directly interpret from their constituent verbs. This leads us to the possibility that compositional verb sequences requires individual verbs to be recognized separately and thus the time to recognize such expressions must be greater than the non-compositional verbs which maps to a single expression of meaning. In order to validate such claim we perform a lexical decision experiment using 32 native Bangla speakers with 92 different verb sequences. We followed the same experimental procedure as discussed in (Taft, 2004) for English polymorphemic words. However, rather than derived words, the subjects were shown a verb sequence and asked whether they recognize them as a valid combination. The reaction time (RT) of each subject is recorded. Our preliminarily observation from the RT analysis shows that as per our claim, RT of verb sequences having high compositionality value is significantly higher than the RTs for low or noncompositional verbs. This proves our hypothesis that Bangla compound verbs that show less compositionality are stored as a hole in the mental lexicon and thus follows the full-listing model
