 is very well suited for the construction of a Bilingual Knowledge Bank (BKB), where the examples are kept in form of S-SSTCs. KEYWORDS: parallel text, Structured String-Tree Correspondence (SSTC), Synchronous SSTC, Bilingual Knowledge Bank (BKB), Tree Bank Annotation Schema. 1. INTRODUCTION There is now a consensus about the fact that natural language should be described as correspondences between different levels of representation. Much of theoretical linguistics can be formulated in a very natural manner as stating correspondences (translations) between layers of representation structures (Rambow & Satta, 1996). In this paper, a flexible annotation schema called Structured String-Tree Correspondence (SSTC) (Boitet & Zaharin, 1988) will be introduced to capture a natural language text, its corresponding abstract linguistic representation and the mapping (correspondence) between these two. The correspondence between the string and its associated representation tree structure is defined in terms of the sub-correspondence between parts of the string (substrings) and parts of the tree structure (subtrees), which can be interpreted for both analysis and generation. Such correspondence is defined in a way 
SSTCs. KEYWORDS: parallel text, Structured String-Tree Correspondence (SSTC), Synchronous SSTC, Bilingual Knowledge Bank (BKB), Tree Bank Annotation Schema. 1. INTRODUCTION There is now a consensus about the fact that natural language should be described as correspondences between different levels of representation. Much of theoretical linguistics can be formulated in a very natural manner as stating correspondences (translations) between layers of representation structures (Rambow & Satta, 1996). In this paper, a flexible annotation schema called Structured String-Tree Correspondence (SSTC) (Boitet & Zaharin, 1988) will be introduced to capture a natural language text, its corresponding abstract linguistic representation and the mapping (correspondence) between these two. The correspondence between the string and its associated representation tree structure is defined in terms of the sub-correspondence between parts of the string (substrings) and parts of the tree structure (subtrees), which can be interpreted for both analysis and generation. Such correspondence is defined in a way that is able to handle some non-standard cases (e.g. non-projective correspondence). While synchronous systems are becomin
wo SSTCs, which is totally non-directional. In this paper, we will present the proposed S-SSTC ? a schema well suited to describe the correspondence between two languages. The synchronous SSTC is flexible and able to handle the non-standard correspondence cases exist between different languages. It can also be used to facilitate automatic extraction of transfer mappings (rules or examples) from bilingual corpora. 2. STRUCTURED STRING-TREE CORRESPONDENCE (SSTC) From the Meaning-Text Theory (MTT)1 point of view, Natural Language (NL) is considered as a correspondence between meanings and texts (Kahane, 2001). The MTT point of view, even if it has been introduced in different formulations, is more or less accepted by the whole linguistic community. In this section, we stress on the fact that in order to describe Natural Language (NL) in a natural manner, three distinct components need to be expressed by the linguistic formalisms; namely, the text, its corresponding abstract linguistic representation and the mapping (correspondence) between these two. Actually, NL is not only a correspondence between different representation levels, as stressed by MTT postulates, but also a sub-correspondence betwe
rtant to specify the sub-correspondences between parts of the string (substrings) and parts of the tree structure (subtrees), which can be interpreted for both analysis and generation in NLP. It is well known that many linguistic constructions are not projective (e.g. scrambling, cross serial dependencies, etc.). Hence, it is very much desired to define the correspondence in a way to be able to handle the non-standard cases (e.g. non-projective correspondence), see Figure 1. Towards this aim, a flexible annotation structure called Structured String-Tree Correspondence (SSTC) was introduced in Boitet & Zaharin (1988) to record the string of terms, its associated representation structure and the mapping between the two, which is expressed by the sub-correspondences recorded as part of a SSTC. 1 The Meaning-7H[W 7KHRU\ 077 ZDV SXW IRUZDUG LQ ?RONRYVNL 0HO??XN  LQ WKH IUDPHZRUk of research in Machine translation. 0RUH SUHVHQWDWLRQV RI 077 FDQ EH IRXQG LQ 0HO??XN  DQG 0LOL?HYL?  2.1 The SSTC Annotation Structure The SSTC is a general structure that can associate an arbitrary tree structure to string in a language as desired by the annotator to be the interpretation structure of the stri
0HO??XN  DQG 0LOL?HYL?  2.1 The SSTC Annotation Structure The SSTC is a general structure that can associate an arbitrary tree structure to string in a language as desired by the annotator to be the interpretation structure of the string, and more importantly is the facility to specify the correspondence between the string and the associated tree which can be nonprojective (Boitet & Zaharin, 1988). These features are very much desired in the design of an annotation scheme, in particular for the treatment of linguistic phenomena, which are non-standard, e.g. crossed dependencies (Tang & Zaharin, 1995). Definitions2: - An SSTC is a general structure, which is a string in a language associated with an arbitrary tree structure; i.e. its interpretation structure, and the correspondence between the string and its associated tree, which can be non-projective; i.e. SSTC is a triple (st, tr, co), where st is a string in one language, tr is its associated representation tree structure and co is the correspondence between st and tr. - The correspondence co between a string and its representation tree is made of two interrelated correspondences: a) Between nodes and substrings (possibly discontinuous
e tree. STREE(N): An interval of the substring in the string that corresponds to the subtree having the node N as root. Figure 2 illustrates the sentence ?John picks the box up? with its corresponding SSTC. It contains a nonprojective correspondence. An interval is assigned to each word in the sentence, i.e. (0-1) for ?John?, (1-2) for ?picks?, (2-3) for ?the&quot;, (3-4) for ?box? and (4-5) for ?up?. A substring in the sentence that corresponds to a node in the representation tree is denoted by assigning the interval of the substring to SNODE of 2 These definitions are based on the discussion in (Tang, 1994) and Boitet & Zaharin (1988). Figure 1: The correspondence between the string ?he picks the box up? and its representation tree (dependency tree and phrasestructure tree), together with the sub-correspondences between the substrings and subtrees. pick up John box John picks the box up Tree String the NP John John V VP pick up picks.up NP box the the.box S NP VP V NP John pick box John picks the box up the up Tree String the.box box the John John picks.up pick up Figure 2: An SSTC recording the sentence ?John picks the box up? and its dependency tree together with the correspondences between su
: An interval of the substring in the string that corresponds to the subtree having the node N as root. Figure 2 illustrates the sentence ?John picks the box up? with its corresponding SSTC. It contains a nonprojective correspondence. An interval is assigned to each word in the sentence, i.e. (0-1) for ?John?, (1-2) for ?picks?, (2-3) for ?the&quot;, (3-4) for ?box? and (4-5) for ?up?. A substring in the sentence that corresponds to a node in the representation tree is denoted by assigning the interval of the substring to SNODE of 2 These definitions are based on the discussion in (Tang, 1994) and Boitet & Zaharin (1988). Figure 1: The correspondence between the string ?he picks the box up? and its representation tree (dependency tree and phrasestructure tree), together with the sub-correspondences between the substrings and subtrees. pick up John box John picks the box up Tree String the NP John John V VP pick up picks.up NP box the the.box S NP VP V NP John pick box John picks the box up the up Tree String the.box box the John John picks.up pick up Figure 2: An SSTC recording the sentence ?John picks the box up? and its dependency tree together with the correspondences between substrings of the sentence and
e string with the similar intervals.The correspondence between subtrees and substrings are denoted by the interval assigned to the STREE of each node, e.g. the subtree rooted at node ?picks up? with STREE interval (0-5) corresponds to the whole sentence ?John picks the box up?. The case depicted in Figure 2, describes how the SSTC structure treats some non-standard linguistic phenomena. The particle &quot;up&quot; is featurised into the verb &quot;pick&quot; and in discontinuous manner (e.g. &quot;up&quot; (4-5) in &quot;pick-up&quot; (1-2+4-5)) in the sentence &quot;He picks the box up&quot;. For more details on the proprieties of SSTC, see Boitet & Zaharin (1988). 3. SYNCHRONOUS SSTC STRUCTURE Much of theoretical linguistics can be formulated in a very natural manner as stating correspondences (translations) between layers of representation structures (Rambow & Satta, 1996), such as the relation between syntax and semantic. An analogous problem is to be defined in such a way that expresses the correspondence between a language and its translations in other languages. Therefore the synchronization of two adequate linguistic formalisms seems to be an appropriate representation for that. The idea of parallelized formalisms is widely used one, and one whi
5) corresponds to the whole sentence ?John picks the box up?. The case depicted in Figure 2, describes how the SSTC structure treats some non-standard linguistic phenomena. The particle &quot;up&quot; is featurised into the verb &quot;pick&quot; and in discontinuous manner (e.g. &quot;up&quot; (4-5) in &quot;pick-up&quot; (1-2+4-5)) in the sentence &quot;He picks the box up&quot;. For more details on the proprieties of SSTC, see Boitet & Zaharin (1988). 3. SYNCHRONOUS SSTC STRUCTURE Much of theoretical linguistics can be formulated in a very natural manner as stating correspondences (translations) between layers of representation structures (Rambow & Satta, 1996), such as the relation between syntax and semantic. An analogous problem is to be defined in such a way that expresses the correspondence between a language and its translations in other languages. Therefore the synchronization of two adequate linguistic formalisms seems to be an appropriate representation for that. The idea of parallelized formalisms is widely used one, and one which has been applied in many different ways. The use of synchronous formalisms is motivated by the desire to describe two languages that are closely related to each other but that do not have the same structures. For
t languages, for example, for the purpose of immediate structural translation in machine translation (Abeill? et al,1990), (Harbusch & Poller,1996), or for relating a syntactic TAG and semantic one for the same language (Shieber & Schabes,1990). S-TAG is a variant of Tree Adjoining Grammar (TAG) introduced by (Shieber & Schabes,1990) to characterize correspondences between tree adjoining languages. Considering the original definition of S-TAGs, one can see that it does not restrict the structures that can be produced in the source and target languages. It allows the construction of a non-TAL (Shieber, 1994), (Harbusch & Poller, 2000). As a result, Shieber (1994) propose a restricted definition for S-TAG, namely, the IS-TAG for isomorphic S-TAG. In this case only TAL can be formed in each component. This isomorphism requirement is formally attractive, but for practical applications somewhat too strict. Also contrastive well-known translation phenomena exist in different languages, which cannot be expressed by IS-TAG, Figure 3 illustrates some examples (Shieber, 1994). Similar limitations also appear in synchronous CFGs (Harbusch & Poller,1994). Due to these limitations, instead of investigating i
example, for the purpose of immediate structural translation in machine translation (Abeill? et al,1990), (Harbusch & Poller,1996), or for relating a syntactic TAG and semantic one for the same language (Shieber & Schabes,1990). S-TAG is a variant of Tree Adjoining Grammar (TAG) introduced by (Shieber & Schabes,1990) to characterize correspondences between tree adjoining languages. Considering the original definition of S-TAGs, one can see that it does not restrict the structures that can be produced in the source and target languages. It allows the construction of a non-TAL (Shieber, 1994), (Harbusch & Poller, 2000). As a result, Shieber (1994) propose a restricted definition for S-TAG, namely, the IS-TAG for isomorphic S-TAG. In this case only TAL can be formed in each component. This isomorphism requirement is formally attractive, but for practical applications somewhat too strict. Also contrastive well-known translation phenomena exist in different languages, which cannot be expressed by IS-TAG, Figure 3 illustrates some examples (Shieber, 1994). Similar limitations also appear in synchronous CFGs (Harbusch & Poller,1994). Due to these limitations, instead of investigating into the synchronization of 
ates some examples (Shieber, 1994). Similar limitations also appear in synchronous CFGs (Harbusch & Poller,1994). Due to these limitations, instead of investigating into the synchronization of two grammars, we propose a flexible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one lang
ns also appear in synchronous CFGs (Harbusch & Poller,1994). Due to these limitations, instead of investigating into the synchronization of two grammars, we propose a flexible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence be
onous CFGs (Harbusch & Poller,1994). Due to these limitations, instead of investigating into the synchronization of two grammars, we propose a flexible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence between two languages (s
 Poller,1994). Due to these limitations, instead of investigating into the synchronization of two grammars, we propose a flexible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence between two languages (synchronous correspondence
on of two grammars, we propose a flexible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence between two languages (synchronous correspondence). Definitions: - Let each of S and T be SSTC which consists of a triple (st, tr, co)
 propose a flexible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence between two languages (synchronous correspondence). Definitions: - Let each of S and T be SSTC which consists of a triple (st, tr, co), where st is 
xible annotation schema (i.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence between two languages (synchronous correspondence). Definitions: - Let each of S and T be SSTC which consists of a triple (st, tr, co), where st is a string in one language, 
.e. Synchronous Structured String-Tree Correspondence (S-SSTC)) to realize additional power and flexibility in expressing structural correspondences at the level of language sentence pairs. For example, such schema can serve as a mean to represent translation examples, or find structural correspondences for the purpose of transfer grammar learning (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Aramaki et al, 2001), (Watanabe et al, 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993), (kaji et al, 1992), and example-base machine translation EBMT3 (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Richardson et al, 2001), (Al-Adhaileh & Tang, 1999). 3.1 The Synchronous SSTC In this section, we will discuss the definition and the formal properties of S-SSTC. A S-SSTC consists of a pair of SSTCs with an additional synchronization relation between them. The use of S-SSTC is motivated by the desire to describe not only the correspondence between the text and its representation structure in one language (i.e. SSTC) but also the correspondence between two languages (synchronous correspondence). Definitions: - Let each of S and T be SSTC which consists of a triple (st, tr, co), where st is a string in one language, tr is its associated represe
 sn A )?(4-5,2-3) in the sn A synchronous correspondence. Whereas, the phrase ?the heavy box? is corresponds to the phrase ?kotak berat itu? in the target is expressed by ( s st A , t st A )?(2- 5,2-5) under the st A synchronous correspondence. 4. HANDLING NON-STANDARD CASES WITH S-SSTC As mentioned earlier, there are some non-standard phenomena exist between different languages, that cause challenges for synchronized formalisms. In this Section, we will describe some example cases, which are drawn from the problem of using synchronous formalisms to define translations between languages (e.g. Shieber (1994) cases). Due to lack of space we will only brief on some of these non-standard cases without going into the details. Figure 4 illustrates a case where the English sentence has non-standard cases of featurisation, crossed dependency and a many-to-one synchronous correspondence in ?picks up?. Another case is reordering of words in the phrases, which is clear in the phrase ?thedet heavyadj boxn? and it corresponding phrase ?kotakn beratadj itudet? in the target. Figure 5, shows two non-standard cases between languages; e.g. French and English. First, the case of many-to-one correspondence, where 
respondence is recorded under the st A where the operation (-: minus) is used to calculate the Y:STREE interval/s for the partial subtree/s. 5. SYNCHRONOUS CORRESPONDENCE CONSTRAINTS BETWEEN NATURAL LANGUAGES (NLs) As we mentioned in Section 2, in the SSTC the correspondences between the surface text and the associated representation tree structure are ensured by means of intervals; i.e. (X:SNODE, Y:STREE). This explicitly indicates which word/s of the text correspond/s to which node in the tree. For describing a NL using SSTC, a set of constraints were defined to govern such correspondences (Lepage, 1994): - X:SNODE and Y:STREE intervals are governed by the following constraints: i) Global correspondence: an entire tree corresponds to an entire sentence. ii) Inclusion: a subtree which is part of another subtree T, must correspond to a substring in the substring corresponding to T. iii) Membership: a node in a subtree T, must correspond to a word which is member of the substring corresponding to T. In a similar manner, in order to describe the synchronous correspondences between NLs using SSSTC, we define a set of constraints to govern the synchronous correspondences between the different NLs. 
STC, if and only if ( s st A , t st A )? st A such that s st A = STREE(Rs) : INT(String) in the first SSTC, and t st A = STREE(Rt) : INT(String) in the second SSTC. This mean the whole tree in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole tree in the second SSTC, and the whole string in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole string in the second SSTC). Note that these constraints can be used to license only the linguistically meaningful synchronous correspondences between the two SSTCs of the S-SSTC (i.e. between the two languages). For instance, when building translation units in EBMT approaches (Richardson et al, 2001), (Aramaki, 2001), (AlAdhaileh &Tang, 1999), (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Sadler & Vendelmans, 1990), etc., where S-SSTC can be used to represent the entries of the BKB or when S-SSTC used as an annotation schema to find the translation correspondences (lexical and structural correspondences) for transferrules? extraction from parallel parsed corpus (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Watanabe et al, Tree String Tree String Figure 9: Partial subtree/s correspondence: the German sentence ?Er beschenkte Hans reichlich? and its corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?
E(Rs) : INT(String) in the first SSTC, and t st A = STREE(Rt) : INT(String) in the second SSTC. This mean the whole tree in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole tree in the second SSTC, and the whole string in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole string in the second SSTC). Note that these constraints can be used to license only the linguistically meaningful synchronous correspondences between the two SSTCs of the S-SSTC (i.e. between the two languages). For instance, when building translation units in EBMT approaches (Richardson et al, 2001), (Aramaki, 2001), (AlAdhaileh &Tang, 1999), (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Sadler & Vendelmans, 1990), etc., where S-SSTC can be used to represent the entries of the BKB or when S-SSTC used as an annotation schema to find the translation correspondences (lexical and structural correspondences) for transferrules? extraction from parallel parsed corpus (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Watanabe et al, Tree String Tree String Figure 9: Partial subtree/s correspondence: the German sentence ?Er beschenkte Hans reichlich? and its corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?; i.e. the use of (-) operation to calculate the Y:STREE interval
 the first SSTC, and t st A = STREE(Rt) : INT(String) in the second SSTC. This mean the whole tree in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole tree in the second SSTC, and the whole string in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole string in the second SSTC). Note that these constraints can be used to license only the linguistically meaningful synchronous correspondences between the two SSTCs of the S-SSTC (i.e. between the two languages). For instance, when building translation units in EBMT approaches (Richardson et al, 2001), (Aramaki, 2001), (AlAdhaileh &Tang, 1999), (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Sadler & Vendelmans, 1990), etc., where S-SSTC can be used to represent the entries of the BKB or when S-SSTC used as an annotation schema to find the translation correspondences (lexical and structural correspondences) for transferrules? extraction from parallel parsed corpus (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Watanabe et al, Tree String Tree String Figure 9: Partial subtree/s correspondence: the German sentence ?Er beschenkte Hans reichlich? and its corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?; i.e. the use of (-) operation to calculate the Y:STREE interval. Synchronous 
C, and t st A = STREE(Rt) : INT(String) in the second SSTC. This mean the whole tree in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole tree in the second SSTC, and the whole string in the first SSTC corresponds to the whole string in the second SSTC). Note that these constraints can be used to license only the linguistically meaningful synchronous correspondences between the two SSTCs of the S-SSTC (i.e. between the two languages). For instance, when building translation units in EBMT approaches (Richardson et al, 2001), (Aramaki, 2001), (AlAdhaileh &Tang, 1999), (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Sadler & Vendelmans, 1990), etc., where S-SSTC can be used to represent the entries of the BKB or when S-SSTC used as an annotation schema to find the translation correspondences (lexical and structural correspondences) for transferrules? extraction from parallel parsed corpus (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Watanabe et al, Tree String Tree String Figure 9: Partial subtree/s correspondence: the German sentence ?Er beschenkte Hans reichlich? and its corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?; i.e. the use of (-) operation to calculate the Y:STREE interval. Synchronous correspondence sn  st  (0-1
 used to license only the linguistically meaningful synchronous correspondences between the two SSTCs of the S-SSTC (i.e. between the two languages). For instance, when building translation units in EBMT approaches (Richardson et al, 2001), (Aramaki, 2001), (AlAdhaileh &Tang, 1999), (Sato & Nagao, 1990), (Sato, 1991), (Sadler & Vendelmans, 1990), etc., where S-SSTC can be used to represent the entries of the BKB or when S-SSTC used as an annotation schema to find the translation correspondences (lexical and structural correspondences) for transferrules? extraction from parallel parsed corpus (Menezes & Richardson, 2001), (Watanabe et al, Tree String Tree String Figure 9: Partial subtree/s correspondence: the German sentence ?Er beschenkte Hans reichlich? and its corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?; i.e. the use of (-) operation to calculate the Y:STREE interval. Synchronous correspondence sn  st  (0-1,0-1) (0-4 - 0-1 - 2-3 - 3- 4, 0-6 - 0-1 - 2-3 - 3-4 - 4-5) (0-1,0-1) (2-3,2-3) (2-3,2-3) beschenkte [v] (1-2/0-4) Er [n] (0-1/0-1) reichlich[adj] (3-4/3-4) Hans [n] (2-3/2-3) 0Er1beschenkte2Hans3reichlich4 give[v] (1-2/0-6) He [n] (0-1/0-1) John [n] (2-3/2-3) present [n] (5-6/3-
Hans reichlich? and its corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?; i.e. the use of (-) operation to calculate the Y:STREE interval. Synchronous correspondence sn  st  (0-1,0-1) (0-4 - 0-1 - 2-3 - 3- 4, 0-6 - 0-1 - 2-3 - 3-4 - 4-5) (0-1,0-1) (2-3,2-3) (2-3,2-3) beschenkte [v] (1-2/0-4) Er [n] (0-1/0-1) reichlich[adj] (3-4/3-4) Hans [n] (2-3/2-3) 0Er1beschenkte2Hans3reichlich4 give[v] (1-2/0-6) He [n] (0-1/0-1) John [n] (2-3/2-3) present [n] (5-6/3-6) an[det] (3-4/3-4) expansive[adj] (4-5/4-5) 0He1gave2John3an4expansive5 5present6 (3-4,4-5) (0-4,0-6) (3-4,4-5) 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993) and (kaji et al, 1992). Note that the grammar alignment rules used in (Menezes & Richardson, 2001) can be reformulated using these constraints to construct the transfer mappings from a synchronous source-target example. Figure 10 shows an example from Menezes and Richardson (2001), the logical form for the SpanishEnglish pair: (?En Informaci?n del hiperv?nculo, haga clic en la direcci?n del hiperv?nculo?, ?Under Hyperlink Information, click the hyperlink address?). Recently, the development of machine translation systems requires a substantial amount of translation kn
s corresponding English sentence ?He gave John an expensive present?; i.e. the use of (-) operation to calculate the Y:STREE interval. Synchronous correspondence sn  st  (0-1,0-1) (0-4 - 0-1 - 2-3 - 3- 4, 0-6 - 0-1 - 2-3 - 3-4 - 4-5) (0-1,0-1) (2-3,2-3) (2-3,2-3) beschenkte [v] (1-2/0-4) Er [n] (0-1/0-1) reichlich[adj] (3-4/3-4) Hans [n] (2-3/2-3) 0Er1beschenkte2Hans3reichlich4 give[v] (1-2/0-6) He [n] (0-1/0-1) John [n] (2-3/2-3) present [n] (5-6/3-6) an[det] (3-4/3-4) expansive[adj] (4-5/4-5) 0He1gave2John3an4expansive5 5present6 (3-4,4-5) (0-4,0-6) (3-4,4-5) 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993) and (kaji et al, 1992). Note that the grammar alignment rules used in (Menezes & Richardson, 2001) can be reformulated using these constraints to construct the transfer mappings from a synchronous source-target example. Figure 10 shows an example from Menezes and Richardson (2001), the logical form for the SpanishEnglish pair: (?En Informaci?n del hiperv?nculo, haga clic en la direcci?n del hiperv?nculo?, ?Under Hyperlink Information, click the hyperlink address?). Recently, the development of machine translation systems requires a substantial amount of translation knowledge typically embodie
e [v] (1-2/0-4) Er [n] (0-1/0-1) reichlich[adj] (3-4/3-4) Hans [n] (2-3/2-3) 0Er1beschenkte2Hans3reichlich4 give[v] (1-2/0-6) He [n] (0-1/0-1) John [n] (2-3/2-3) present [n] (5-6/3-6) an[det] (3-4/3-4) expansive[adj] (4-5/4-5) 0He1gave2John3an4expansive5 5present6 (3-4,4-5) (0-4,0-6) (3-4,4-5) 2000), (Meyers et al, 2000), (Matsumoto et al, 1993) and (kaji et al, 1992). Note that the grammar alignment rules used in (Menezes & Richardson, 2001) can be reformulated using these constraints to construct the transfer mappings from a synchronous source-target example. Figure 10 shows an example from Menezes and Richardson (2001), the logical form for the SpanishEnglish pair: (?En Informaci?n del hiperv?nculo, haga clic en la direcci?n del hiperv?nculo?, ?Under Hyperlink Information, click the hyperlink address?). Recently, the development of machine translation systems requires a substantial amount of translation knowledge typically embodied in the bilingual corpora. For instance, the development of translation systems based on transfer mappings (rules or examples) that automatically extracted from these bilingual corpora. All these systems typically first obtain a tree structures (normally a predicateargument or a d
s are extracted, which are then presented as a set of examples in a bilingual knowledge bank (BKB) or transfer rules for translation process. However, what has so far been lacking is a schema or a framework to annotate and express such extracted lexical and structural correspondences in a flexible and powerful manner. The proposed S-SSTC annotation schema can fulfill this need, and it is flexible enough to handle different type of relations that may happen between different languages? structures. S-SSTC very well suited for the construction of a BKB, which is needed for the EBMT applications. Al-Adhaileh and Tang (2001) presented an approach for constructing a BKB based on the S-SSTC. In S-SSTC, the synchronous correspondence is defined in a way to ensure a flexible representation for both lexical and structural correspondences: i- Node?to?node correspondence (lexical correspondence), which is recorded in terms of pair of intervals (Xs,Xt) where Xs and Xt is SNODE interval/s for the source and the target SSTC respectively, ii- Subtree? to?Subtree correspondence (structural correspondence), which is very much needed for relating the two different languages at a level higher than the lexical level, a level of 
