 of derivation and (single-word) composition ? suffers from serious performance degradation with the stemming-only query-term-to-text-word matching paradigm. We propose an alternative approach in which morphologically complex word forms are segmented into relevant subwords (such as stems, named entities, acronyms), and subwords constitute the basic unit for indexing and retrieval. We evaluate our approach on a large biomedical document collection. 1 Introduction Morphological alterations of a search term have a negative impact on the recall performance of an information retrieval (IR) system (Choueka, 1990; Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996), since they preclude a direct match between the search term proper and its morphological variants in the documents to be retrieved. In order to cope with such variation, morphological analysis is concerned with the reverse processing of inflection (e.g., ?search  ed?, ?search  ing?)1 , derivation (e.g., ?search  er? or ?search  able?) and composition (e.g., German ?Blut  hoch  druck? [?high blood pressure?]). The goal is to map all occurring morphological variants to some canonical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from
 suffers from serious performance degradation with the stemming-only query-term-to-text-word matching paradigm. We propose an alternative approach in which morphologically complex word forms are segmented into relevant subwords (such as stems, named entities, acronyms), and subwords constitute the basic unit for indexing and retrieval. We evaluate our approach on a large biomedical document collection. 1 Introduction Morphological alterations of a search term have a negative impact on the recall performance of an information retrieval (IR) system (Choueka, 1990; Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996), since they preclude a direct match between the search term proper and its morphological variants in the documents to be retrieved. In order to cope with such variation, morphological analysis is concerned with the reverse processing of inflection (e.g., ?search  ed?, ?search  ing?)1 , derivation (e.g., ?search  er? or ?search  able?) and composition (e.g., German ?Blut  hoch  druck? [?high blood pressure?]). The goal is to map all occurring morphological variants to some canonical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from above. The efforts required for performing morphological a
 concerned with the reverse processing of inflection (e.g., ?search  ed?, ?search  ing?)1 , derivation (e.g., ?search  er? or ?search  able?) and composition (e.g., German ?Blut  hoch  druck? [?high blood pressure?]). The goal is to map all occurring morphological variants to some canonical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from above. The efforts required for performing morphological analysis vary from language to language. For English, known for its limited number of inflection patterns, lexicon-free general-purpose stem1 ?  ? denotes the string concatenation operator. mers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980) demonstrably improve retrieval performance. This has been reported for other languages, too, dependent on the generality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried ou
h the reverse processing of inflection (e.g., ?search  ed?, ?search  ing?)1 , derivation (e.g., ?search  er? or ?search  able?) and composition (e.g., German ?Blut  hoch  druck? [?high blood pressure?]). The goal is to map all occurring morphological variants to some canonical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from above. The efforts required for performing morphological analysis vary from language to language. For English, known for its limited number of inflection patterns, lexicon-free general-purpose stem1 ?  ? denotes the string concatenation operator. mers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980) demonstrably improve retrieval performance. This has been reported for other languages, too, dependent on the generality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical a
?]). The goal is to map all occurring morphological variants to some canonical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from above. The efforts required for performing morphological analysis vary from language to language. For English, known for its limited number of inflection patterns, lexicon-free general-purpose stem1 ?  ? denotes the string concatenation operator. mers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980) demonstrably improve retrieval performance. This has been reported for other languages, too, dependent on the generality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may 
ariants to some canonical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from above. The efforts required for performing morphological analysis vary from language to language. For English, known for its limited number of inflection patterns, lexicon-free general-purpose stem1 ?  ? denotes the string concatenation operator. mers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980) demonstrably improve retrieval performance. This has been reported for other languages, too, dependent on the generality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare
ical base form ? e.g., ?search? in the examples from above. The efforts required for performing morphological analysis vary from language to language. For English, known for its limited number of inflection patterns, lexicon-free general-purpose stem1 ?  ? denotes the string concatenation operator. mers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980) demonstrably improve retrieval performance. This has been reported for other languages, too, dependent on the generality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (whi
 dependent on the generality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (which is not the case in the medical domain either), this is certainly not true for German and other basically agglutinative languages known for excessive single-word nominal compounding. This problem becomes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides
enerality of the chosen approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (which is not the case in the medical domain either), this is certainly not true for German and other basically agglutinative languages known for excessive single-word nominal compounding. This problem becomes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides fairly standardized nom
approach (Ja?ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (which is not the case in the medical domain either), this is certainly not true for German and other basically agglutinative languages known for excessive single-word nominal compounding. This problem becomes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides fairly standardized nominal compound
ppinen and Niemisto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (which is not the case in the medical domain either), this is certainly not true for German and other basically agglutinative languages known for excessive single-word nominal compounding. This problem becomes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides fairly standardized nominal compounds, which alread
isto?, 1988; Choueka, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (which is not the case in the medical domain either), this is certainly not true for German and other basically agglutinative languages known for excessive single-word nominal compounding. This problem becomes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides fairly standardized nominal compounds, which already form a regular par
, 1990; Popovic and Willett, 1992; Ekmekc?ioglu et al, 1995; Hedlund et al, 2001; Pirkola, 2001). When it comes to a broader scope of morphological analysis, including derivation and composition, even for the English language only restricted, domain-specific algorithms exist. This is particularly true for the medical domain. From an IR view, a lot of specialized research has already been carried out for medical applications, with emphasis on the lexico-semantic aspects of dederivation and decomposition (Pacak et al, 1980; Norton and Pacak, 1983; Wolff, 1984; Wingert, 1985; Dujols et al, 1991; Baud et al, 1998). While one may argue that single-word compounds are quite rare in English (which is not the case in the medical domain either), this is certainly not true for German and other basically agglutinative languages known for excessive single-word nominal compounding. This problem becomes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides fairly standardized nominal compounds, which already form a regular part of the sublanguag
omes even more pressing for technical sublanguages, such as medical German (e.g., ?Blut  druck  mess  gera?t? translates to ?device for measuring blood pressure?). The problem one faces from an IR point of view is that besides fairly standardized nominal compounds, which already form a regular part of the sublanguage proper, a myriad of ad hoc compounds are formed on the fly which cannot be anticipated when formulating a retrieval query though they appear in relevant documents. Hence, enumerating morphological variants in a semi-automatically generated lexicon, such as proposed for French (Zweigenbaum et al, 2001), turns out to be infeasible, at least for German and related languages. Association for Computational Linguistics. the Biomedical Domain, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp. 61-68. Proceedings of the Workshop on Natural Language Processing in Furthermore, medical terminology is characterized by a typical mix of Latin and Greek roots with the corresponding host language (e.g., German), often referred to as neo-classical compounding (McCray et al, 1988). While this is simply irrelevant for general-purpose morphological analyzers, dealing with such phenomena is crucial for any attempt to cope adequatel
y appear in relevant documents. Hence, enumerating morphological variants in a semi-automatically generated lexicon, such as proposed for French (Zweigenbaum et al, 2001), turns out to be infeasible, at least for German and related languages. Association for Computational Linguistics. the Biomedical Domain, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp. 61-68. Proceedings of the Workshop on Natural Language Processing in Furthermore, medical terminology is characterized by a typical mix of Latin and Greek roots with the corresponding host language (e.g., German), often referred to as neo-classical compounding (McCray et al, 1988). While this is simply irrelevant for general-purpose morphological analyzers, dealing with such phenomena is crucial for any attempt to cope adequately with medical free-texts in an IR setting (Wolff, 1984). We here propose an approach to document retrieval which is based on the idea of segmenting query and document terms into basic subword units. Hence, this approach combines procedures for deflection, dederivation and decomposition. Subwords cannot be equated with linguistically significant morphemes, in general, since their granularity may be coarser than that of morphemes (cf. our discuss
erman and related languages. Association for Computational Linguistics. the Biomedical Domain, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp. 61-68. Proceedings of the Workshop on Natural Language Processing in Furthermore, medical terminology is characterized by a typical mix of Latin and Greek roots with the corresponding host language (e.g., German), often referred to as neo-classical compounding (McCray et al, 1988). While this is simply irrelevant for general-purpose morphological analyzers, dealing with such phenomena is crucial for any attempt to cope adequately with medical free-texts in an IR setting (Wolff, 1984). We here propose an approach to document retrieval which is based on the idea of segmenting query and document terms into basic subword units. Hence, this approach combines procedures for deflection, dederivation and decomposition. Subwords cannot be equated with linguistically significant morphemes, in general, since their granularity may be coarser than that of morphemes (cf. our discussion in Section 2). We validate our claims in Section 4 on a substantial biomedical document collection (cf. Section 3). 2 Morphological Analysis for Medical IR Morphological analysis for IR has requirements 
performs backtracking whenever recognition remains incomplete. If a complete recognition cannot be achieved, the incomplete segmentation results, nevertheless, are considered for indexing. In case the recognition procedure yields alternative complete segmentations for an input word, they are ranked according to preference criteria, such as the minimal number of stems per word, minimal number of consecutive affixes, and relative semantic weight.2 3 Experimental Setting As document collection for our experiments we chose the CD-ROM edition of MSD, a Germanlanguage handbook of clinical medicine (MSD, 1993). It contains 5,517 handbook-style articles (about 2.4 million text tokens) on a broad range of clinical topics using biomedical terminology. In our retrieval experiments we tried to cover a wide range of topics from clinical medicine. Due to the importance of searching health-related contents both for medical professionals and the general public we collected two sets of user queries, viz. expert queries and layman queries. 2A semantic weight  =2 is assigned to all subwords and some semantically important suffixes, such as ?-tomie? [?-tomy?] or ?-itis?;  =1 is assigned to prefixes and deriva
nt). Given such a time-consuming task, we investigated only a small number of user queries in our experiments. This also elucidates why we did not address interrater reliability. The queries and the relevance judgments were hidden from the developers of the subword dictionary. For unbiased evaluation of our approach, we used a home-grown search engine (implemented in the PYTHON script language). It crawls text/HTML files, produces an inverted file index, and assigns salience weights to terms and documents based on a simple tf-idf metric. The retrieval process relies on the vector space model (Salton, 1989), with the cosine measure expressing the similarity between a query and a document. The search engine produces a ranked output of documents. We also incorporate proximity data, since this information becomes particularly important in the segmentation of complex word forms. So a distinction must be made between a document containing ?append  ectomy? and ?thyroid  itis? and another one containing ?append  ic  itis? and ?thyroid  ectomy?. Our proximity criterion assigns a higher ranking to adjacent and a lower one to distant search terms. This is achieved by an adjacency offset,  , which is
n and adjacency, are combined (WSAO), they produce an increase of precision at nine from eleven recall points, 2.5% on average compared with WS. None of these differences are statistically significant when the two-tailed Wilcoxon test is applied at all eleven recall levels. Trigram indexing (TG) yields the poorest results of all methodologies being tested. It is comparable to WS at low recall levels ( BOCEGIH ), but at high ones its precision decreases almost dramatically. Unless very high rates of misspellings are to be expected (this explains the favorable results for trigram indexing in (Franz et al, 2000)) one cannot really recommend this method. The subword approach (SU) clearly outperforms the previously discussed approaches. We compare it here with WSAO, the best-performing lexicon-free method. Within this setting, the gain in precision for SU ranges from 6.5% to 14% ( BPCQEGIH ), while for high recall values ( BRJMLNGIH ) it is still in the range of 4.8% to 6%. Indexing by synonym class identifiers (SY) results in a marginal decrease of overall performance compared with SU. To estimate the statistical significance of the differences SU vs. WSAO and SY vs. WSAO, we compared value pairs at 
ady superior (for all layman and expert queries this method retrieved relevant documents, whereas word-based methods failed in 29.6% of the layman queries and 8% of the expert queries, cf. Figure 5). It would be interesting to evaluate the retrieval effectiveness (in terms of precision and recall) of different versions of the synonym class indexing approach in those cases where retrieval using word or subword indexes fails due to a complete mismatch between query and documents. This will become even more interesting when mappings of our synonym identifiers to a large medical thesaurus (MeSH, (NLM, 2001)) are incorporated into our system. Alternatively, we may think of user-centered comparative studies (Hersh et al, 1995). 4.1 The AltaVistaTM Experiment Before we developed our own search engine, we used the AltaVistaTM Search Engine 3.0 (http:// solutions.altavista.com) as our testbed, a widely distributed, easy to install off-the-shelf IR system. For the conditions WSA, SU, and SY, we give the comparative results in Table 6. The experiments were run on an earlier version of the dictionary ? hence, the different results. AltaVistaTM yielded a superior performance for all three major test scen
hods failed in 29.6% of the layman queries and 8% of the expert queries, cf. Figure 5). It would be interesting to evaluate the retrieval effectiveness (in terms of precision and recall) of different versions of the synonym class indexing approach in those cases where retrieval using word or subword indexes fails due to a complete mismatch between query and documents. This will become even more interesting when mappings of our synonym identifiers to a large medical thesaurus (MeSH, (NLM, 2001)) are incorporated into our system. Alternatively, we may think of user-centered comparative studies (Hersh et al, 1995). 4.1 The AltaVistaTM Experiment Before we developed our own search engine, we used the AltaVistaTM Search Engine 3.0 (http:// solutions.altavista.com) as our testbed, a widely distributed, easy to install off-the-shelf IR system. For the conditions WSA, SU, and SY, we give the comparative results in Table 6. The experiments were run on an earlier version of the dictionary ? hence, the different results. AltaVistaTM yielded a superior performance for all three major test scenarios compared with our home-grown engine. This is not at all surprising given all the tuning Precision (%) AltaVista Ex
nnot be modified under experimental conditions. The benefit of the subword indexing method is apparently higher for the commercial IR system. For AltaVistaTM the average precision gain was 15.9% for SU and 11.5% for SY, whereas our simple tfidf - driven search engine gained only 5.3% for SU and 3.4% for SY. Given the imbalanced benefit for both systems (other things being equal), it seems highly likely that the parameters feeding AltaVistaTM profit even more from the subword approach than our simple prototype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morpholog
ed under experimental conditions. The benefit of the subword indexing method is apparently higher for the commercial IR system. For AltaVistaTM the average precision gain was 15.9% for SU and 11.5% for SY, whereas our simple tfidf - driven search engine gained only 5.3% for SU and 3.4% for SY. Given the imbalanced benefit for both systems (other things being equal), it seems highly likely that the parameters feeding AltaVistaTM profit even more from the subword approach than our simple prototype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morphology ? both in ter
y higher for the commercial IR system. For AltaVistaTM the average precision gain was 15.9% for SU and 11.5% for SY, whereas our simple tfidf - driven search engine gained only 5.3% for SU and 3.4% for SY. Given the imbalanced benefit for both systems (other things being equal), it seems highly likely that the parameters feeding AltaVistaTM profit even more from the subword approach than our simple prototype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morphology ? both in terms of derivation and (single-word) composition. Document retrieval in these languages su
he commercial IR system. For AltaVistaTM the average precision gain was 15.9% for SU and 11.5% for SY, whereas our simple tfidf - driven search engine gained only 5.3% for SU and 3.4% for SY. Given the imbalanced benefit for both systems (other things being equal), it seems highly likely that the parameters feeding AltaVistaTM profit even more from the subword approach than our simple prototype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morphology ? both in terms of derivation and (single-word) composition. Document retrieval in these languages suffers from seri
R system. For AltaVistaTM the average precision gain was 15.9% for SU and 11.5% for SY, whereas our simple tfidf - driven search engine gained only 5.3% for SU and 3.4% for SY. Given the imbalanced benefit for both systems (other things being equal), it seems highly likely that the parameters feeding AltaVistaTM profit even more from the subword approach than our simple prototype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morphology ? both in terms of derivation and (single-word) composition. Document retrieval in these languages suffers from serious performan
proach than our simple prototype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morphology ? both in terms of derivation and (single-word) composition. Document retrieval in these languages suffers from serious performance degradation with the stemmingonly query-term-to-text-word matching paradigm. We proposed here a dictionary-based approach in which morphologically complex word forms, no matter whether they appear in queries or in documents, are segmented into relevant subwords and these subwords are subsequently submitted to the matching procedure. This way, the impact of wo
otype system. 5 Conclusions There has been some controversy, at least for simple stemmers (Lovins, 1968; Porter, 1980), about the effectiveness of morphological analysis for document retrieval (Harman, 1991; Krovetz, 1993; Hull, 1996). The key for quality improvement seems to be rooted mainly in the presence or absence of some form of dictionary. Empirical evidence has been brought forward that inflectional and/or derivational stemmers augmented by dictionaries indeed perform substantially better than those without access to such lexical repositories (Krovetz, 1993; Kraaij and Pohlmann, 1996; Tzoukermann et al, 1997). This result is particularly valid for natural languages with a rich morphology ? both in terms of derivation and (single-word) composition. Document retrieval in these languages suffers from serious performance degradation with the stemmingonly query-term-to-text-word matching paradigm. We proposed here a dictionary-based approach in which morphologically complex word forms, no matter whether they appear in queries or in documents, are segmented into relevant subwords and these subwords are subsequently submitted to the matching procedure. This way, the impact of word form alterations can be
