ghly unlikely to precisely match for any two specific resources (Wang et al., 2009). Ideally, for applying a lexical resource to an entity recognition or disambiguation task to serve as a definition of a semantic category there would be a precise match between the definitions of the lexical resource and target domain, but this is seldom or never the case. Most previous work studying the use of dictionary resources in entity mention-related tasks has focused on single-class NER, in particular this is true for BioNLP where it has mainly concerned the detection of proteins. These efforts include Tsuruoka and Tsujii (2003), utilising dictionaries for protein detection by considering each dictionary entry using a novel distance measure, and Sasaki et al. (2008), applying dictionaries to restrain the contexts in which proteins appear in text. In this work, we do not consider entity mention detection, but instead focus solely on the related task of disambiguating the semantic category for a given continuous sequence of characters (a textual span), doing so we side-step the issue of boundary detection in favour of focusing on novel aspects of semantic category disambiguation. Also, we are yet to see a high-performi
, we did not succeed in establishing a clear improvement for more than one of the six corpora. Although we have not been successful in 142 Figure 6: Learning curve for Super GREC Figure 8: Learning curve for CALBC CII Figure 7: Learning curve for EPI proving our initial hypothesis we argue that our results calls for further study due to several concerns raised by the results remaining unanswered. It may be that our notion of distance to lexical resource entries is too naive. A possible future direction would be to compare the query string to retrieved results using a method similar to that of Tsuruoka and Tsujii (2003). This would enable us to retain the advantage of fast approximate string matching, thus being able to utilise larger lexical resources than if we were to calculate sophisticated alignments for each lexical entry. Study of the confusion matrices revealed that some event categories such as negative regulation, positive regulation and regulation for ID are commonly confused by the classifiers. Adding additional resources or contextual features may alleviate these problems. To conclude, we have found a limited advantage but failed to establish a clear, systematic benefit from approximate string m
