cent accuracy without wasting computation on backtracking or rejection. When the word inclusion constraint is introduced, we show clear empirical advantages over the simple solution of searching a large corpus for an appropriate sentence. 2 Related Work The majority of NLG focuses on the satisfaction of a communicative goal, with examples such as Belz (2008) which produces weather reports from structured data or Mitchell et al. (2013) which generates descriptions of objects from images. Our work is more similar to NLG work that concentrates on structural constraints such as generative poetry (Greene et al., 2010) (Colton et al., 2012) (Jiang and Zhou, 2008) or song lyrics (Wu et al., 2013) (Ramakrishnan A et al., 2009), where specified meter or rhyme schemes are enforced. In these papers soft semantic goals are sometimes also introduced that seek responses to previous lines of poetry or lyric. Computational creativity is another subfield of NLG that often does not fix an a priori meaning in its output. Examples such as ¨Ozbal et al. (2013) and Valitutti et al. (2013) use template filling techniques guided by quantified notions of humor or how catchy a phrase is. Our motivation for generation of materi
ord inclusion constraint is introduced, we show clear empirical advantages over the simple solution of searching a large corpus for an appropriate sentence. 2 Related Work The majority of NLG focuses on the satisfaction of a communicative goal, with examples such as Belz (2008) which produces weather reports from structured data or Mitchell et al. (2013) which generates descriptions of objects from images. Our work is more similar to NLG work that concentrates on structural constraints such as generative poetry (Greene et al., 2010) (Colton et al., 2012) (Jiang and Zhou, 2008) or song lyrics (Wu et al., 2013) (Ramakrishnan A et al., 2009), where specified meter or rhyme schemes are enforced. In these papers soft semantic goals are sometimes also introduced that seek responses to previous lines of poetry or lyric. Computational creativity is another subfield of NLG that often does not fix an a priori meaning in its output. Examples such as ¨Ozbal et al. (2013) and Valitutti et al. (2013) use template filling techniques guided by quantified notions of humor or how catchy a phrase is. Our motivation for generation of material for language education exists in work such as Sumita et al. (2005) and Most
roduced, we show clear empirical advantages over the simple solution of searching a large corpus for an appropriate sentence. 2 Related Work The majority of NLG focuses on the satisfaction of a communicative goal, with examples such as Belz (2008) which produces weather reports from structured data or Mitchell et al. (2013) which generates descriptions of objects from images. Our work is more similar to NLG work that concentrates on structural constraints such as generative poetry (Greene et al., 2010) (Colton et al., 2012) (Jiang and Zhou, 2008) or song lyrics (Wu et al., 2013) (Ramakrishnan A et al., 2009), where specified meter or rhyme schemes are enforced. In these papers soft semantic goals are sometimes also introduced that seek responses to previous lines of poetry or lyric. Computational creativity is another subfield of NLG that often does not fix an a priori meaning in its output. Examples such as ¨Ozbal et al. (2013) and Valitutti et al. (2013) use template filling techniques guided by quantified notions of humor or how catchy a phrase is. Our motivation for generation of material for language education exists in work such as Sumita et al. (2005) and Mostow and Jang (2012), which deal
013) (Ramakrishnan A et al., 2009), where specified meter or rhyme schemes are enforced. In these papers soft semantic goals are sometimes also introduced that seek responses to previous lines of poetry or lyric. Computational creativity is another subfield of NLG that often does not fix an a priori meaning in its output. Examples such as ¨Ozbal et al. (2013) and Valitutti et al. (2013) use template filling techniques guided by quantified notions of humor or how catchy a phrase is. Our motivation for generation of material for language education exists in work such as Sumita et al. (2005) and Mostow and Jang (2012), which deal with automatic generation of classic fill in the blank questions. Our work is naturally complementary to these efforts, as their methods require a corpus of in-vocab text to serve as seed sentences. 3 Freeform Generation For clarity in our discussion, we phrase the sentence generation process in the following general terms based around two classes of atomic units : contexts and outcomes. In order to specify a generation system, we must define 1. the set C of contexts c 2. the set O of outcomes o 3. the “Imply” function I(c, o) —* List[c E C] 4. M : derivation tree ;-± sentence whe
ists of dependents is a plausible sentence one might as wel pick one ative gals. Othr work sch as ours investig i i d nt nd m ny eg rp or the END symbol. The shaded rectangles contain the resultsuof Ih(c,oo) from thehindicated (c, o) pair. ing 6 Experiments We train our models on sentences drawn from the Simple English Wikipedia1. We obtained these ROOT VBZ NNS sentences from a data dump which we liberally fillikes dogs tered to remove items such as lists and sentences longer than 15 words or shorter then 3 words. We ROOT PRP VZ s ke parsed this data with the recently updated Stanford Parser (Socher et al., 2013) to Penn Treebank constituent form, and removed any sentence that did not parse to a top level S containing at least one NP and one VP child. Even with such strong filters, we retained over 140K sentences for use as training data, and provide this exact set of parse trees for use in future work.2 Inspired by the application in language education, for our vocabulary list we use the English Vocabulary Profile (Capel, 2012), which predicts student vocabulary at different stages of learning English as a second language. We take the most basic American English vocabulary (the A1 list), and retrieve
any sentence that did not parse to a top level S containing at least one NP and one VP child. Even with such strong filters, we retained over 140K sentences for use as training data, and provide this exact set of parse trees for use in future work.2 Inspired by the application in language education, for our vocabulary list we use the English Vocabulary Profile (Capel, 2012), which predicts student vocabulary at different stages of learning English as a second language. We take the most basic American English vocabulary (the A1 list), and retrieve all inflections for each word using SimpleNLG (Gatt and Reiter, 2009), yielding a vocabulary of 1226 simple words and punctuation. To mitigate noise in the data, we discard any pair of context and outcome that appears only once in the training data, and estimate the parameters of the unconstrained model using EM. 6.1 Model Comparison We experimented with many generation models before converging on SPINEDEP, described in Figure 2, which we use in these experiments. 1http://simple.wikipedia.org 2data url anon for review We motivate two specfic constraints concernSPINEDEP unsmoothed otaint e m education whe aries d SPINEDEP WordNet a fixed vocabulary sch that only
